Jewish female scholar/E. Solomon
In response to Allen Thrasher's inquiry:
I am reasonably sure that there was no female Jewish scholar working on
Jainism and Prakrit at the University of Baroda in the recent past. The
patron Allen refers to is probably confusing Ahmedabad with Baroda because
of the proximity of the two places and the generally close ties between the
departments of Sanskrit and Prakrit at Gujarat University and the M.S.
University at Baroda. In any case, if there was a Jewish female scholar
working on Jainism and Prakrit, Professor Esther Soloman should know her
and be able to provide information about her whereabouts.  Prof. Solomon is
as Indian by birth as anyone can be, with Gujarati as her native language.
She retired as Head of the Department of Sanskrit and Prakrit, the School
of Languages, Gujarat University, Ahmedabad 380 009, a few years ago. While
the School and the L.D. Institute (with which she now has a closer
scholarly association), Near Gujarat University, Navrangpura, Ahmedabad 380
009,can forward her mail, it would be more efficient to write using her
home address, which is: 33 Nehru Nagar, Ambrawadi, Ahmedabad 380 009
(probable postal code). It is true that she is primarily a Samkhya and
Vedanta specialist, but her knowledge of Jain literature is quite
considerable too. 
Ashok Aklujkar, Professor, Department of Asian Studies, University of B.C.,
Vancouver, B.C., Canada V6T 1Z2. Tel: (604) 822-5185, (604) 274-5353. Fax
822-8937.
