From birgit.kellner at UNIVIE.AC.AT  Fri Oct 26 13:43:08 2007
From: birgit.kellner at UNIVIE.AC.AT (Birgit Kellner)
Date: Fri, 26 Oct 07 15:43:08 +0200
Subject: Publication announcement (WSTB): Steinkellner Festschrift and              Kellner, Anupalabdhirahasya ...
Message-ID: <161227081418.23782.6109450984045414272.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

Dear colleagues,

(apologies for cross-posting.)

I am delighted to announce two recent publications from the Wiener 
Studien zur Tibetologie und Buddhismuskunde:

WSTB 70: Birgit Kellner, Helmut Krasser, Horst Lasic, Michael Torsten 
Much, Helmut Tauscher (eds), "Pram??ak?rti?. Papers dedicated to Ernst 
Steinkellner on the occasion of his 70th birthday" (2007) 1103p, 2 
volumes. ISBN: 978-3-902501-09-07. EUR 69.00.

The Tables of Contents for both volumes are given below, in plain text 
format.

WSTB 67: Birgit Kellner, "J??na?r?mitra's Anupalabdhirahasya and 
Sarva?abd?bh?vacarc?: A Critical Edition with A Survey of his 
Anupalabdhi-Theory" (2007) 126p. ISBN: 978-3-902501-06-6. EUR 14.


Orders can be placed online: 
http://www.istb.univie.ac.at/cgi-bin/wstb/wstb.cgi

Best regards,

Birgit Kellner
Department of South Asian, Tibetan and Buddhist Studies
University of Vienna
Austria

---------- Festschrift Ernst Steinkellner: Tables of Conents 
--------------------

------- Volume 1 -----------

Ernst Steinkellner ? Imprints and echoes xi

Publications of Ernst Steinkellner xxvii

Katia Buffetrille, ?Pays cach?? ou ?Avenir radieux?? Le choix de Shes 
rab rgya mtsho 1

Gudrun B?hnemann, ?ivali?gas and caityas in representations of the eight 
cremation grounds from Nepal 23

Christoph C?ppers, Die Reise- und Zeltlagerordnung des F?nften Dalai Lama 37

Elena De Rossi Filibeck, The fragmentary Tholing bKa? ?gyur in the IsIAO 
Library 53

Max Deeg, A little-noticed Buddhist travelogue ? Senghui?s Xiyu-ji and 
its relation to the Luoyang-jialan-ji 63

Hildegard Diemberger, Padmasambhava?s unfinished job: the subjugation of 
local deities as described in the dBa? bzhed in light of contemporary 
practices of spirit possession 85

Georges Dreyfus, Is perception intentional? A preliminary exploration of 
intentionality in Dharmak?rti 95

Franz-Karl Ehrhard, The biography of sMan-bsgom Chos-rje Kun-dga? 
dpal-ldan (1735?1804) as a source for the Sino?Nepalese war 115

Vincent Eltschinger, On 7th and 8th century Buddhist accounts of human 
action, practical rationality and soteriology 135

Eli Franco, Praj??karagupta on prat?tyasamutp?da and reverse causation 163

Toru Funayama, Kamala??la?s distinction between the two sub-schools of 
Yog??c?ra. A provisional survey 187

Richard Gombrich, Popperian Vinaya: Conjecture and refutation in 
practice 203

Michael Hahn, In defence of Haribha??a 213

Paul Harrison, Notes on some West Tibetan manuscript folios in the Los 
Angeles County Museum of Art 229

Jens-Uwe Hartmann, Der Sattv?r?dhanastava und das K??ranad?s?tra 247

Guntram Hazod, The grave on the ?cool plain?. On the identification of 
?Tibet?s first tomb? in Nga?ra?thang of ?Phyong-po 259

Harunaga Isaacson, First Yoga: A commentary on the ?diyoga section of 
Ratn?kara??nti?s Bhramahara (Studies in Ratn?kara??nti?s tantric works 
IV) 285

Takashi Iwata, An analysis of examples for the interpretation of the 
word i??a? in Dharmak?rti?s definition of the thesis 315

David Jackson, Rong ston bKa? bcu pa ? Notes on the title and travels of 
a great Tibetan scholastic 345

Christian Jahoda, Archival exploration of Western Tibet or what has 
re?mained of Francke?s and Shuttleworth?s Antiquities of Indian Tibet, 
Vol. IV? 361

Muni ?r? Jamb?vijayaji, Dign?ga?s Ny?yaprave?aka??tra 395

Shoryu Katsura, Dharmak?rti?s proof of the existence of other minds 407

Deborah Klimburg-Salter, Tradition and innovation in Indo-Tibetan 
painting. Four preaching scenes from the life of the Buddha, Tabo mid 
11th century. 423

Taiken Kyuma, Marginalia on the subject of sattv?num?na 469

Horst Lasic, Placing the Tabo tshad ma materials in the general 
development of tshad ma studies in Tibet. Part one: The study of the 
Ny?yabindu 483

Christian Luczanits, Prior to Birth II ? The Tu?ita episodes in Early 
Tibetan Buddhist literature and art 497






------- Volume 2 --------
Klaus-Dieter Mathes, Can s?tra mah?mudr? be justified on the basis of 
Maitr?pa?s Aprati??h?nav?da? 545

Claus Oetke, About the assessment of views on a self in the Indian 
philosophical tradition 567

Patrick Olivelle, The term vikrama in the vocabulary of A?vagho?a 587

Parimal G. Patil, Dharmak?rti?s white lie ? Philosophy, pedagogy, and 
truth in late Indian Buddhism 597

Ole Holten Pind, N?g?rjunian Divertimento ? A close reading of 
M?lamadhyamakak?rik? VII 30cd and VIII 7cd 621

Karin Preisendanz, The initiation of the medical student in early 
classical ?yurveda: Caraka?s treatment in context 629

Ernst Prets, Implications, derivations and consequences: prasa?ga in the 
early Ny?ya tradition 669

Charles Ramble, The Aya: Fragments of an unknown Tibetan priesthood 683

Ludo Rocher, Commentators at work: Inheritance by brothers in Hindu law 721

Rosane Rocher, Henry Thomas Colebrooke and the marginalization of Indian 
pandits 735

Cristina Scherrer-Schaub, Immortality extolled with reason: Philosophy 
and politics in N?g?rjuna 757

Lambert Schmithausen, Problems with the Golden Rule in Buddhist texts 795

Walter Slaje, Werke und Wissen: Die Quellensammlung (AD 1680) des 
Kaschmirers ?nanda zum Beweis der Superiorit?t der 
karma?j???na?samuccaya-Doktrin 825

Per S?rensen, Restless relic ? The ?rya Loke?vara icon in Tibet: Symbol 
of power, legitimacy and pawn for patronage 857

Tom J.F. Tillemans, On bdag, gzhan and the supposed active-passive 
neutrality of Tibetan verbs 887

Toru Tomabechi, The extraction of mantra (mantroddh?ra) in the 
Sarvabuddhasam?yogatantra 903

Raffaele Torella, Studies on Utpaladeva?s ??varapratyabhij??viv?ti. Part 
IV: Light of the subject, light of the object 925

Kurt Tropper, The Buddha-vita in the skor lam chen mo at Zha lu 
monastery 941

Helga Uebach and Jampa L. Panglung, A silver portrait of the 6th 
?wa?dmar Karma?pa (1584?1630) 975

K?the Uray-K?halmi, Geser/Kesar und seine Gef?hrtinnen 989

Leonard W.J. van der Kuijp, *N?gabodhi/N?gabuddhi: Notes on the 
Guhyasam?ja Literature 1001

Roberto Vitali, The White dPyal: Early evidence (from the 7th century to 
the beginning of bstan pa phyi dar) 1023

Chizuko Yoshimizu, Causal efficacy and spatiotemporal restriction: An 
analytical study of the Sautr?ntika philosophy 1049

Kiyotaka Yoshimizu, Reconsidering the fragment of the B?ha???k? on 
inseparable connection (avin?bh?va) 1079




