one hundred volumes. From these Kapadia has gleaned a few 
thoughts about women and social change. In 1940, reviewing his 
twenty-five years of work in India concerning women's role in 
society, Gandhi says, "My contribution to the great problem 
lies in my presenting for acceptance truth and ahimsa 
(non-violence) in every walk of life, whether for individuals 
or nations. I have hugged the hope that in this woman will be 
the unquestioned leader and, having thus found her place in 
human evolution, will shed her inferiority complex... Woman is 
the incarnation of ahimsa. Ahimsa  means infinite love, which 
again means infinite capacity for suffering. And who but 
woman, the mother of man, shows this  capacity in the largest 
measure?... Let her translate that love to the whole of 
humanity... And she will occupy her proud position by the side 
of man... She can become the leader in satyagraha..."
What is significant and what Kapadia underlines here is 
Gandhi's image of woman and his hope for her, so radically 
different from that of any earlier reformer. 

WHETHER INHERITANCE TO WOMEN IS A VIABLE SOLUTION             
OF DOWRY PROBLEM IN INDIA? by Subhadra Chaturvedi

The gravest form of the problem is dowry death, the enormity 
whereof can be visualized by the fact that according to the 
National Crime Records Bureau of India, in 1994, there 
occurred a dowry death in India every 102 minutes. According 
to a statement made by the State Minister for Home Affairs in 
the Parliament of India, the number of dowry death in 1993 is 
5,817. As far as property is concerned, the present position 
is that 99% property is held by men. Inheritance is governed 
by Hindu Succession Act, 1956 and in respect of agricultural 
lands, which constitute 90% of the total property in India, by 
respective land laws of the States concerned. Sub-section (2) 
of Sec. 4 of the Act, specifically excludes the application of 
the Act in respect of agricultural holdings and almost all the 
land laws have given preference to the male inheritance. Even 
under the Hindu Succession Act, despite the loudest 
proclamation of gender equality under the Indian Constitution, 
a female heir is practically entitled to only a negligible 
fragment of property inasmuch as in India the 90% of the 
property is ancestral property and the majority is governed by 
Mitakshara copercernory law and according to Section 6 of the 
Act (applicable in case of intestate succession) read with the 
Schedule of the Act, a female heir would inherit only a little 
unless she is the only heir out of the 12 categories specified 
in class I of the Schedule. Female inheritance which will give 
the financial security to women and which will eliminate the 
rationalization of money transfer before and/or after wedding 
in the form of dowry and/or "stridhan". 

Vol. 2, No. 1:
STRIDHANA: TO HAVE AND TO HAVE NOT by Enrica Garzilli 

The paper is a survey and an analysis of Hindu women's rights 
to property (str?dhana) in India. The first part deals with 
the connection between Indian dowry and property. In fact, for 
centuries dowry has been the only property of Hindu women. The 
second part is a diachronical study of the law according to 
the traditional Hindu law-books, the dharma??stras. The 
interdependence between dowry, considered for centuries as a 
substitute for inheritance, and inheritance itself has also 
been investigated. The most authoritative Indian law-books 
from the Manavadharma??stra (2nd-3rd A.D.) until the Hindu 
Succession Act of 1956, and some major commentaries and 
digests on them, have been considered. The third part of the 
study focuses on the legal fracture between the concepts of 
property and str?dhana under the British rule. The English 
misinterpretation of the traditional law allowed women to have 
full property rights only with certain restrictions and only 
when still alive. The third and fourth part of the paper 
analyzes the Hindu Women's Rights to Property Act (1937) and 
the Hindu Succession Act (1956). In the last part there is an 
attempt to answer a few questions that come from the study.

Vol. 2, No. 2: 
SATI WAS NOT ENFORCED IN ANCIENT NEPAL by Jayaraj Acharya

Sati, the ancient custom in the Hindu religion of a wife being 
burnt withher dead husband, does not seem to have been 
enforced in ancient Nepal, i.e. during the rule of the 
Licchavi dynasty (c. A.D. 300-879).In this paper, the about 
190 stone inscriptions from this period are considered. The 
only Licchavi inscription which has a reference to the sati 
system is the inscription of Manadeva I at the Changu Narayana 
temple in the north-eastern corner of the Kathmandu valley 
(A.D. 464). This inscription does not refer to the commitment 
of sati but abstention from it. Moreover, out of the total 
190, there are 18 stone inscriptions thatwere installed 
exclusively by widows during the Licchavi period. Of the 18 
inscriptions of widows, only 3 were by members of the royal 
family. These are some instances that evidently indicate the 
abstention from sati, but there is not a single evidence in 
any of the 190 inscriptions from the Licchavi period Nepal 
that says that someone did it.                                

THE DAUGHTERS AND HINDU RITES by Bandita Phukan

This the account of Ms. Bandita Phukan. She is the first woman 
mechanical engineer in the State of Assam. When her father 
died in 1993, her relatives tried to find a son of a cousin to 
do the last rites (Shraddha), because her father did not have 
a son. Bandita revolted, and asked thepriest to permit her to 
do the last rites. At the beginning, the priestrefused. Last 
rites of a dead person can be performed only by a malemember 
of the family, and never by a daughter. Bandita did not give 
up. Ather insistence, one Brahmin priest came forward and 
allowed her to performthe last rites of her father. If married 
Hindu daughters could be allowed to perform the Shraddha 
cerimonies, concludes Phukan, their surviving parents would be 
happy to have "a dear daughter as eligible as their dear son." 
          
PRACTICAL STEPS TOWARDS SAVING THE LIVES OF 25,000 POTENTIAL 
VICTIMS OF DOWRY AND BRIDE-BURNING IN INDIA IN THE NEXT FOUR 
YEARS by Himendra B. Thakur

This paper offers an analysis of one of the remedies that 
could besuggested to oppose dowry: young women should refuse 
to marry as soon asthe groom's family asks for dowry. It gives 
statistics and examines: 1) the cases of dowry-deaths in 
India; 2) the geographical distribution of concentration of 
dowry-deaths per million Hindu popolation. In the last part of 
the paper, Thakur outlines three immediate and a 
long-termsolutions given women who refuse to marry because of 
dowry demand.

Vol. 2, No. 3:
FROM 'BAYLAN' TO 'BRUHA': HISPANIC IMPACT ON THE  ANIMIST 
PRIESTESS IN THE PHILIPPINES by Carolyn Brewer

In the Philippines, at the time of the Spanish conquest, the 
Catholic priests were instructed by Bishop Salazar to learn 
and preach in the languages of the inhabitants. However, 
certain cluster of words,especially those involving Animist 
priestesses were altered, negated andthen marginalised almost 
to extinction. This movement paralleled the demonisation and 
eventual disappearance of the priestesses fromhistorical 
texts. The paper wants to: 1) describe the process involvedin 
this double negation; 2) recover the forgotten words; 3) give 
Animist priestesses back their rightful place in Philippine 
history. 

Vol. 2, No. 4:
DOMESTIC VIOLENCE: A DAILY TERROR IN MOST MAURITIAN 
FAMILIES by Ranjita Bunwaree-Phukan

In Mauritian Society there is the rise in domestic violence. 
Cases of battered children, women in distress and complaints 
from male partners are increasing. The Government is sparing 
no effort to grapple with these problems through its wide 
network of services, such as counselling, prompt intervention 
and other means. Mauritius is a tiny multi-cultural island in 
the Indian Ocean off the East Coast of Madagascar and South 
East Coast of Africa. Its population of ca. 1,2 millions 
originates from Africa, India, China, and Europe, though the 
main part of it originates from India. In this paper the 
author analyzes the reasons and the remedies for this 
increasing plague. 

DOWRY, "DOWRY DEATHS", AND VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN by Julia 
Leslie

For several months in 1994 Leslie has made a collection of 
clippings on dowry deaths in several papers in India: the 
daily The Hindu, The Deccan Herald, and The Indian Express, 
the monthly India Today, and an occasional Times of India. She 
noted that the giving of dowry in the first place is 
traditionally justified in terms of giving the daughter her 
"inheritance" at the time of marriage, even though only a 
small proportion of that dowry is ever intended for her own 
use. Through this unsystematic survey, Leslie studied whether 
dowry deaths were a middle-class phenomenon, how prevalent was 
the custom of demanding and giving dowry, whether "dowry 
deaths" and the system of dowry were generally increasing. She 
asked people who was to blame for dowry, and the result was 
that 83% of the women respondents in this study spoke against 
the system of dowry, and men said that women were responsible 
for this. Everyone was against dowry on principle and yet 
everyone felt compelled to take part. She concludes atht 
anyone can be victimized by the dowry system, even men. In 
this study Leslie further explores whether men could be the 
victims of dowry. Her last question is whether dowry is the 
real problem. She answers that is the perceived, internalized 
and socially reinforced ideology of the inferiority of women 
that brings to dowry deaths. Finally she lists a series of 
proposals to eradicate the phenomenon.

HINDU MARRIAGE SYSTEM, HINDU SCRIPTURES AND DOWRY AND 
BRIDE-BURNING IN INDIA by Ram Narayan Tripathi

The paper of Ram Narayan Tripathi is a survey of the 
traditional forms of Hindu marriage through thr scriptures and 
its connection with the modern crime of dowry and 
bride-burning in India. The author asserts that it is hard to 
comprehend that the ancient scriptures of India which 
propounded the social laws with understanding, logic, justice 
and wisdom, thereby establishing one of the most enduring 
civilization of mankind, suddenly became illogical and started 
to retch outrageous customs like dowry and bride-burning 
"which are just one step better than cannibalism". According 
to Tripathi, the only explanation appears to be a period of 
overall decadence during which individuals survived by 
sacrificing many values, which resulted in degeneration of all 
dimensions of life, including corruption of some scriptures. 
The period of degeneration continued for such a long time that 
it became a second nature of the people, and they forgot how 
the customs started in the first place. It will be worthwhile 
to undertake an intensive study of this period of Indian 
history. 

LITTLE DOWRY, NO SAT?: THE LOT OF WOMEN IN THE VEDIC PERIOD by 
Michael E. J. Witzel 

This paper focuses on two main topics: sat? and dowry in Vedic 
times. The wife was bound to her new family for life, and 
beyond it. Whether she had to follow her husband to the other 
world at the time of his death or shortly afterwards, has been 
a keen topic of discussion. ?gveda 10.18.8 talks about the 
return of the widow to her settlement, together with her 
relatives. In Atharvaveda 18.3.1 this argument is further 
expanded. These passages indicate clearly that a widow was not 
to be buried or cremated with her husband. The Ka?ha Sa?hit?, 
Br?hma?a and Ara?yaka as well as their S?tras are silent on 
the topic. In short: there was no sat? in the Vedic texts, 
from the ?gveda down to the Upani?ads and the S?tras. In the 
case of dowry, even less material is visible from the early 
Vedic period. However, even in the ?V there are a few 
indications of the right of women to inherit. Rightful heirs 
are the brotherless maidens, the appointed daughters 
(appointed by her sonless father to give him a grandson who 
will continue his lineage), the widow who temporarily marries 
the brother of the deceased sonless husband to produce a male 
child who would be counted as a son of the deceased husband 
(niyoga practice). In the post-?gvedic texts, the Br?hma?as, 
it is clear that a woman was regarded as the possession of her 
husband, and generally in a socially lower position. In some 
text there is a form of "a bride price" to get a husband for 
the daughter. On the other hand, dowry in a mild form existed 
as well: at the time of marriage, the father of the bride gave 
presents to the bridegroom. These gifts were expressively 
called mutual between the groom and the bride or their 
families. In Vedic India, the wife did not have her own 
possessions, she did not even own herself. On the other hand, 
the wife was "a queen in her own house". The lot of Vedic 
women was that a women is never independent as an unmarried 
woman, as a wife, and as a mother. She had to be protected 
respectively by her father, her husband, her son. If women, 
especially brotherless maidens, were freer than they were in 
later India, their freedom was restricted in many ways. Bride 
burning or dowry deaths, of course, did not occur at all. 
Dowry did exist at the time, but is was given in a framework 
of mutual exchange between the two families involved.

Vol. 3, No. 1:
ENTERING THE WORLD OF A NON-CONVENTIONAL WOMAN: TWO EVENINGS 
WITH TASLIMA NASRIN by Enrica Garzilli

This is a report of two evenings spent together with Taslima 
Nasrin in April 1996 in Cambridge (U.S.A.). Nasrin is a poet 
and a writer; she is the 1995 Sakharov Prize for Freedom of 
Thought. Nasrin came to Cambridge to deliver lectures. During 
the first, informal meeting and dinner, Garzilli approached 
Nasrin as a woman and a friend, trying to be on the same side, 
to understand her, and to go through her public, dramatic 
personality as controversial and criticized writer and 
polemist, and as a symbol of freedom for thousand women 
writers in the world. 

THE PERILS OF FREE SPEECH by Taslima Nasrin    

Taslima Nasrin gave this lecture in April 26, 1996 in 
Cambridge, Massachusetts (U.S.A.). It has never been published 
so far. It is about women who want to be writers and poets. It 
is about herself and her problems to be a writer in Bangladesh 
nowadays. Difficulties are both due to Islamic fundamentalism, 
and to the general idea that women education would ruin the 
family. Educated girls would forget their rituals, neglect 
their husbands and their families. In reaction to the initial 
attempts at educating the girls, it was spread the idea that 
women, if educated, would become widows, which means their 
husbands would die. Another common idea is that they educated 
women would loose their virtue. There is a saying in Bengali 
to the effect that if women put on shoes the lunch is spoiled. 
Muslim working women are still very rare in middle class 
families; many are forced to work for wages but mostly in the 
informal sector like private tutoring, or they are teachers at 
schools, colleges, hospitals and a few other types of 
institutions. In this situation one can hardly expect hundreds 
of women to take up the pen. There are women among authors and 
journalists in Bangladesh, but there are few in number. The 
problem grows up when a women of Bangladesh want to do some 
really creative writing. As long as a woman writes on males, 
stories or poems, as long she imitates male writer's style and 
subject matters, as long she follows the beaten track, as long 
as she remains conformist, she will be all right. But if 
someone starts telling what she really means, editors and 
publishers are bound to raise their eyebrows. Indeed, the 
moment a girl in Bangladeshi society starts writing, the first 
reaction of men is that there must be something wrong with 
her. Why should a happy housewife want to write? Men think 
girls with problems usually take refuge in the mental asylum 
or become prostitute or commit suicide. And those who cannot 
do either, they pick up the pen and shamelessly intrude into 
the men's world. The paper goes on telling about questions, 
comments, and speculations on herself. Nasrin describes her 
track and problems to be as she is: a free, atheist woman 
writer in a Muslim patriarchal country. The talk is followed 
by her reading of poems, and by more than one hour of 
questions and answers with the audience.

*********************** END **************************

Details on the book will follow. 

Thank you,

EG
-- 
Dr. Enrica Garzilli
Univ. of Perugia (ITALY)
Editor-in-Chief, IJTS and JSAWS (http://www.shore.net/~india/)
Mng. Editor, (http://www.shore.net/~india/ejvs/)
*************************************************************







