From DKumar6248 at aol.com  Thu Aug 28 01:11:05 1997
From: DKumar6248 at aol.com (DKumar6248 at aol.com)
Date: Wed, 27 Aug 97 21:11:05 -0400
Subject: Dravidian Cryptography
Message-ID: <161227031969.23782.65994244998879959.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

Dear members of the Indology List,

I am pleased to bring to your attention that a discovery of fundamental
importance concerning the Dravidian language family has been posted on the
Internet at http://www.mninter.net/~kumar/

Dravidian is cryptographic in nature and it is so imbued with the linguistic
phenomenon of inversion and substitution that without its operation, many
times in co-operation with such other linguistic phenomena as the phonetic
correspondences, there could scarcely have been the tightly knit languages of
 Dravidian. The realization of the cryptographic nature of Dravidian will
provide us with great insight in the studies of many fields of not only
Dravidian, but also Indo-Aryan.

The reason why the site of this Indology List has been chosen as the first
place for this announcement is that, because of the realization of the
existence and operation of this ancient Dravidian linguistic phenomenon of
inversion and substitution, Indology is going to be much more interesting. In
fact, I believe, it is never going to be the same again. One of the reasons
for this is that numerous words, terms, names, etc., which occur in the
ancient Indian texts, including the Vedas, are the result of the operation of
this phenomenon. To put it concisely, they have been encoded by the
employment of this linguistic technique of inversion and substitution.

It may be noted that these words, names, etc., are not obscure items, (and
there are, as scholars like T. Burrow have noted, a remarkable number of them
in Sanskrit, the meanings of which are either unknown or obscure), but those
which we have known for a long time; but we have not known that they are the
result of the operation of this Dravidian linguistic phenomenon. This can be
demonstrated by taking a name Drupada (who was the father of Droupadi, whose
other names and black complexion have been the subject of a lively discussion
on this site lately) in light of the phenomenon of inversion and
substitution.

It is well known to the Indologists that Drupada was a PanchAla king, the son
of Prishata. In a legend concerning his birth, it is said that Prishata was
childless, and in order to get an heir he lived in a forest performing the
most severe penences. During this time an incident occurred: Prishata beheld
the sight of the ravishing  MEnaka, the apsara, when she was walking by in
the forest in a diaphanous robe. Prishata lost his seed which fell to the
ground. Ashamed that this happened, Prishata made a 'hasty step' (dru-pAda),
and trod upon the seed, and tried to rub it away. But the seed lived, and
from it a son was born bearing the name Drupada.

The elements which should be kept in mind concerning this story are that
Prishata took a stride and rubbed the seed. Now, in the Dravidian Kannada
language, the word dApu denotes: stretch or the measure of a stride (DED
#2433). Also in Kannada, the word urdu denotes: to rub (DED. #665). Now when
we put these two Kannada words together as (dApu+urdu) dApuurdu, and invert
the order of the consonants and vowels, it yields: udruupAd, which with the
slightest change in the vowels, becomes drupada, which is Drupada, the name
of the son of Prishata thus born according to the legend.

It might be asked why we should look up these Dravidian words and their
meanings alone and not the others? The simple reason is the same why we look
for a certain meaning of a certain word in a dictionary. The linguistic
phenomenon of inversion and substitution is an integral part of the greater
Dravidian linguistic phenomenon. Without taking it into account, the true
nature of the dravidian language family can not be fully comprehended.
Besides, like always, regarding this illustration also, there are other
related Kannada words which elucidate the relationship of the phenomenon of
inversion and substitution with these words concerning Drupada. But, this
announcement is not the place to mention them. 

Now, it should be noted that if  the above noted case of Drupada was the only
such example, we could have ascribed it to an accident or a chance. But the
fact is, this is only one of the numerous illustrations which the phenomenon
of inversion and substitution reveals to us regarding the words, terms, and
names occurring in the ancient texts. This linguistic phenomenon (which has
been defined in the above noted document as - the order of consonants in
numerous Dravidian words participating in the phenomenon of inversion and
substitution is reversed in their counterpart words with the same or
logically related meaning or meanings, while the vowels of the former are
usually, but not necessarily always, substituted by the vowels of the latter
- ), is not a quirk in the Dravidian language family, it is not due to an
accident or coincidence, but a linguistic technique conceived and
deliberately applied by the ancient Dravidians who by its employment
increased and enriched their vocabulary. The significance and usefulness of
this phenomenon can be gathered by noticing the fact that the results of its
operation are still with us to this day.  It is in this respect that it can
be said that this phenomenon is still alive in  Dravidian, even though this
linguistic secret has been forgotten for many centuries.

The realization of the existence and operation of this ancient linguistic
instrument will help us understand and solve some problems which face us in
the pertaining fields. For instance,in spite of the knwon fact that the
ancient Dravidians had profound religious experience and expression, how is
that the names of most of the Indian deities, demons, and other natural and
supernatural figures are in Indo-Aryan languages? Again, in view of the fact
that the theory of the so-called invasion of the Aryans into prehistoric
India has been proven to be false and utterly baseless, how do we account for
the relationship that does exist between the Indo-Aryan and the Indo-European
languages? I believe that the realization of the cryptographic nature of
Dravidian and that of its implications will help us approach and solve these
and other such problems with confidence. I also believe that we are entering
a new era of understanding and research not only concerning the Dravidian and
other Indian languages, but also in the understanding of the cultures,
religions, and other manifestations of their speakers. First, however, this
linguistic phenomenon of inversion and substitution must be understood and
studied in its home, which is Dravidian.

The World Wide Web site of the above noted document is best viewed on
Netscape, for it has been observed that its contents do not take kindly to
all browsers. It has also been noticed that certain browsers make the type of
letters either too big or too small or the text crowded. Note that it is
going to take some time to laod, and please be patient if the browser
scrambles the contents. I will attempt to post other information and
illustrations concerning Dravidian cryptography, but it would help the
interested reader to go through the contents of the document first. I will
also attempt to bring this document to the notice of  each and every scholar
through email etc., but I would appreciate it if the reader informs other
interested scholars about the location of this document on the Internet on
his or her own. Thanks in advance. Best regards.

Yours,

V.Keerthi Kumar
<  http://www.mninter.net/~kumar/  > 
email:  <  dkumar6248 at aol.com  >  
          





