From DKumar6248 at aol.com  Tue Sep  2 05:58:12 1997
From: DKumar6248 at aol.com (DKumar6248 at aol.com)
Date: Tue, 02 Sep 97 01:58:12 -0400
Subject: Dravidian Cryptography
Message-ID: <161227032022.23782.17741214142777033862.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

The entire paragraph from a posting I made at 11:10 PM 9/1/97 BST reads as
follows:

I beleive, at all cost, the temptation to speculate on any unknown aspect of
knowledge must be sternly resisted, for speculations and projections which
continue to be made are usually turned into theories which in their turn
often find a place in newspapers, magazines, textbooks, encyclopedias, etc.,
and they have a tendency to stay there. A good example is the episode
concerning the supposed invasion by the supposed Aryans into prehistoric
India, and the supposed destruction they wreaked on the people of the ancient
Indian civilization usually referred to as the Indus Valley Civilization, and
this was repeated in all books even by the so-called historians. All this has
been proved to be baseless. In fact it should never have been surmised, taken
for granted, and further propogated, for many scholars like M.S. Elphinstone
(1841) had already testified in no unmistakable terms that the Hindu
scripture "..."is opposed to their (Hindus) foreign origin...To say that it
spread from a central point is an unwarranted assumption, and even to
analogy; for, emigration and civilization have not spread in a circle, but
from east to west. Where, also, could the central point be, from which a
language could spread over India, Greece, and Italy and yet leave Chaldea,
Syria and Arabia untouched? (History of India; brackets and omissions are
mine)."

In support of what is stated above concerning the supposed Aryan invasion and
the destruction they are supposed to have wreaked on the people of the
ancient Indian civilization, I have to rely on such modern authorities'
learned opinions as Professor G. F. Dales (former head of the department of
Southasian Archaeology and Anthropology, Berkeley), who in his famous The
Mythical Massacre at Mohenjo-daro (1964),  incredulously asks the important
question: "What of these skeletal remains that have taken on such undeserved
importance?" He further states that after nine years of excavations at
Mohenjo-daro, in as vast an area as three miles radius, 37 skeletons or parts
thereof, were found which could be, with some certainty, attributed to the
period of this civilization. He makes it a point to state that they were all
found not within the area of the fortified citadel where one could expect a
defence. He pointedly asks where are the supposed burned fortresses, pieces
of  armour, weapons, arrow heads, the smashed chariots, and the bodies of the
invaders and the defenders? He underscored his opinion by saying that in
spite of the extensive excavations at the largest sites belonging to Harappan
area "there is not a single bit of evidence" which can be attributed to an
armed conflict, conquest, and destruction of these places on the supposed
large scale invasion of the Aryans.

I would rely on this opinion of an esteemed archaeologist on this matter and
that is what I have done.

Another modern scholar, Colin Reinfrew, a Cambridge Professor of archaeology,
in his well known work Archaeology and Language: The Puzzle of Indo-European
Origins, among other things, flatly states that as far as he can see :
"...When Wheeler speaks of the Aryan invasion of the land of the Seven
Rivers, the Punjab, he has no warranty at all..."  He further says that as
far as he can see, there is nothing in the Rigvedic Hymns which demonstrates
that the Vedic-speaking people were intrusive to the area. He flatly states:
"This comes rather from a historical assumption about the 'coming' of the
Indo-Europeans."

In my paragraph noted above, that is exactly what I was referring to:
assumptions, and I would rely on the opinions of these recent scholars and
archaeologists on this matter.

I suppose, no matter what, there is always going to be some who would like to
beleive in what they beleive, and express that beleif in whichever fashion
they choose, especially if that happens to be not partaken by others. I also
suppose, there is nothing wrong with that. One is entitled to ones own
opinion, I suppose. There we go again, suppositions! Best regards.

yours

V. Keerthi Kumar

<  http://www.mninter.net/~kumar/  >
email:  < dkumar6248 at aol.com  >  

















































                                                                             





