TV's challenge. From authoritative reporting and stimulating comment,
emphasis has shifted to fashion, films, beauty contests. Time was when
English papers used to be staid, even stodgy. Some of then now try to be
glib, flippant and occasionally prurient. Even so, cumulatively, the
English Press retains its influence and prestige. In influencing ordinary
voters, Hindi and regional language papers are evidently doing better. A
notable trend in some of the most important English language papers has
been the eclipse of the Editor by the younger generation of the
proprietors.
Economic liberalization has spawned a large number of purely business or
financial dailies called the "pink papers" because, like London's Financial
Times, they are published on salmon-colored newsprint. A disastrous
consequence of the boom in business journalism has been the spur to greed
and a shocking increase in corruption among journalists. The profession has
not become bereft of honesty. But far too many are now acting unethically
and unprofessionally. There were other sources of corruption and crass
behavior earlier, such as collaboration between unscrupulous politicians
and pliable editors and reporters. This dismal trend has also worsened. The
most disgusting case was of a Chief Minister of U.P., the most populous and
politically key state, who used the state treasury to bribe favored
journalists with millions of rupees and allotment of lucrative real estate.
The case is being examined by the Press Council, headed by a retired
Supreme Court judge, which has the power only to censure, not punish.
On the other hand, there is no dearth of honest, intrepid editors and
journalists who even risk their lives to expose wrongdoing. Initially
dominated by politics, the Indian media has now shifted its focus on
economics, of course. But it also takes interest in human condition and
vigorously champions human rights, especially those of women and children,
poverty alleviation, prevention of environmental degradation and so on. In
short, like the country itself, the Indian media is a complex mix basically
projecting a picture of itself which is upbeat. ENDS

***

The abstract is also posted at:
        http://asnic.utexas.edu/asnic/conseminar/IndianmediaInd.html

Thanks.

Kamal Adhikary




