From mittals at MAGELLAN.UMONTREAL.CA  Mon Nov  3 15:09:32 1997
From: mittals at MAGELLAN.UMONTREAL.CA (Mittal Sushil)
Date: Mon, 03 Nov 97 10:09:32 -0500
Subject: CFP: International Journal of Hindu Studies
Message-ID: <161227033394.23782.12589473272972873771.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

International Journal of Hindu Studies

The aim of the _International Journal of Hindu Studies_ is to examine
Hinduism centrally and in a special way. It wishes to consider Hinduism
analytically and comparatively as a "form of life" as clarified by its
contrasts and similarities to other historical and present day forms. This
is to say that we will be less concerned with the intrinsic forms of
Hinduism and its history, as illuminated by philological and descriptive
studies.  Rather, our focus will be, on the one hand, on Hinduism's
adaptations to a wide range of historical circumstances and ecological,
economic, and political possibilities and, on the other, on the Hindu
forms that work "on the ground" in particular places and times to generate
special kinds of social, cultural, and psychological order and problems.
        We consider this to be necessarily a comparative exploration and
welcome (and need) contributions from scholars in other fields who wish to
bring their own studies of religion, world views, theories of modernity
and pre-modernity, social organization and social control, and so on, into
dialogue with Hindu studies. We equally encourage South Asia scholars to
explore such perspectives in their own work.
        We wish to explore whether it may be productive to ask--in
addition to the descriptive "_What_ is Hinduism?"--the theoretical
question (or questions, for we expect there is a large and productive set
of answers) "_Why_ is Hinduism the way it is?"
        The Journal, therefore, invites submissions of a comparative or
theoretical nature in all fields of the social sciences and humanities in
the hope of furthering a dialogue that centers on one of the great human
creations, Hinduism, which differs in so many respects from the religions
and societies that have informed much of classical Western thought.
        Articles falling within the broad and deliberately somewhat vague
boundaries we envisage will be chosen on the basis of the quality,
importance and general interest of the research, the force of theoretical
argument, and felicity of expression. Three copies of the paper should be
submitted. All submissions will be peer reviewed.
        Completed manuscripts, inquiries about material for possible
publication, and correspondence to the editor should be sent to the
Journal's editorial office: Sushil Mittal, Editor, _International Journal
of Hindu Studies_, International Institute of India Studies, 1270 St-Jean,
St-Hyacinthe, Quebec, Canada J2S 8M2. Tel (514) 771-0213, Fax (514)
771-2776, Email <mittals at magellan.umontreal.ca>.

_International Journal of Hindu Studies_ (ISSN 1022-4556) is published
three times a year in April, August, and December through World Heritage
Press by the International Institute of India Studies. Annual subscription
rates: Institutional: $150 (North America); $156 (Rest of world).
Individual: $60 (North America); $66 (Rest of world). Students:  $30
(North America); $36 (Rest of world). Orders from outside Canada must be
paid in US dollars. Prices include postage.
        To order a subscription, contact World Heritage Press, Journals
Department, 1270 St-Jean, St-Hyacinthe, Quebec, Canada J2S 8M2. Tel (514)
771-0213, Fax (514) 771-2776.

Full details on _International Journal of Hindu Studies_ can be found on
the Journal Homepage at: http://www.clas.ufl.edu/users/gthursby/ijhs/

 =========================================================================




