From tylerwwilliams at gmail.com  Thu Dec  3 20:17:38 2020
From: tylerwwilliams at gmail.com (Tyler Williams)
Date: Thu, 03 Dec 20 12:17:38 -0800
Subject: [INDOLOGY] CFP: South Asia Graduate Student Conference, March 4-6 2021
Message-ID: <CAHRgzy1pWqNi3Hdm3RfVS4hJWPgiXRX6tvjC=o+0VEG14O1Prg@mail.gmail.com>

Dear colleagues,

There is still time for graduate students to submit paper proposals
for the South Asia Graduate Student Conference to be held virtually on
March 4-6, 2021 'at' the University of Chicago. The conference encompasses
a wide disciplinary field but Indology and philology more generally are
always well-represented at the conference.

The deadline to submit an abstract is *December 10th 2020, 5pm CST.*

The detailed CFP as well as the submission link can be found *HERE
<https://lucian.uchicago.edu/blogs/sagsc/>. *Details below.

Best regards,

Tyler Williams
University of Chicago

*Between Comparison and Context:*

*Global and Local Movements in South Asia*

*Call for papers: *The organizing committee of the Eighteenth South Asia
Graduate Students Conference (SAGSC-XVIII) is pleased to announce the 2021
conference: *Between Comparison and Context: Global and Local Movements in
South Asia*. *The conference will take place on 4th, 5th, and 6th March
2021*. We invite graduate students from all disciplines of study, and at
any stage of their graduate career to apply for this conference.

Social movements have historically been the trigger for mobilization,
action, and transformation in all parts of the world, including South Asia.
The aim of this conference is to expand the study of movements in South
Asia, while simultaneously interrogating South Asia as a field of study.
Keeping in view recent instances of mobilization, along with examples from
the long history of the sub-continent, we invite papers that study the
emergence, forms of organization, methods, politics and impact of social
movements in South Asia. In particular, we are interested in papers that
engage with the methodological question of the context-specificity of these
movements along with the ways in which they compare with other movements
across the world. We welcome papers from diverse disciplinary and
methodological approaches based on the broadest interpretation of the
concept and practice of movements? contemporary as well as historical.

In their research, South Asianists often wonder whether knowledge about the
region needs to be produced within a comparative schema, or if it can be
generated within the specific context of the local alone. When analyzing
movements across temporal and spatial planes, this methodological debate is
tremendously productive whether across, or within, disciplines. For
instance, should scholars of modern human rights movements work with the
universalist assumptions of the concept or embrace a South Asia-specific
understanding?  Or, how does a scholar of the Bhakti movement use Western
liberal terms of ?reform? to understand the religious movement in that
context? Does movement mean the same thing across modern and early modern
South Asia? How does studying Dalit movements in India, alongside racial
justice movements in the US (and their transnational dialogue), improve our
understanding of both?

Traditionally, South Asia has been a fertile ground for the study of a
variety of social movements, such as worker, agrarian, linguistic,
anti-imperial, religious, (anti)caste, Adivasi and women?s movements
lending itself to a variety of comparative and interpretative approaches.
We invite graduate students who work on various mobilizations, mass
transformations, social trends, and socio-cultural movements in South Asia
to contemplate upon their specific research cases with an eye towards the
interaction between the global and the local. Where do we locate specific
cases in South Asia within a larger network of movements? How have local
movements been inspired by other, larger networks? Are movements in South
Asia only derivative of global moments and can only be understood
comparatively, or are there context specificities that mark their
singularities? Paper proposals can address the following prompts but are
definitely not restricted to them.

   - Intellectual movements and their cultural forms (art, literature,
   film, etc.)
   - Social reform movements (religion, caste, gender, peasant)
   - Political movements (human rights, women?s rights, pro-democracy)
   - Regional and linguistic movements in South Asia
   - Migrations and movements
   - Postcolonial progressive movements
   - South Asian conservatism and global right populism
   - Elite movements and legal mobilization
   - Mass movements and social media
   - Labor and peasant movements
   - Civil rights movements
   - Contending definitions of justice and rights within movements
   - Movements for legal and constitutional reforms
   - Middle-class mobilizations
   - Neo-religious or neo-spiritual movements in South Asia (and the
   diaspora)
   - Environment and resource-preservation movements
   - Revolutionary and armed movements
   - Cultures of protests

We invite graduate students (MA, MPhil, PhD) from a wide range of
departments including Anthropology, Archaeology, Art History, Comparative
Literature, Film Studies, Gender and Sexuality Studies, History, Law,
Linguistics, Philosophy, Political Science, Religion, Sociology, South
Asian Studies. *Please submit abstracts here
<https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeIeznsyw_br_7M8Fa1AP8Qb4xBwollNui-T3-vgd7zwti5-A/viewform?usp=sf_link>
for
individual papers of no more than 250 words by 5 pm CST on 10th December,
2020*. Only one abstract per person is allowed. Panel proposals will not be
considered. We will notify applicants of a decision by early January 2021.

Given the current circumstances and travel restrictions in place, there is
a high likelihood that this year?s conference will be held online. In such
a situation, we hope to accommodate participation from various parts of the
world by conducting  the virtual proceedings approximately between 8.30 am
to 1pm CST (GMT-6) on all three days. If you have any questions, please
write to us at sagsc2021 at gmail.com.

*Organizing Committee: *Krithika Ashok (Law School), Sanjukta Poddar
(SALC), Supurna Dasgupta (SALC)

*Faculty Advisor*: Prof. Muzaffar Alam (SALC and History)


-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20201203/daa13149/attachment.htm>

