Vedic accent in taittiriya samhita
The written accentuation of the TS is not very different from the RV and
basically the same rules of prosody apply.  There is a reason for
misunderstanding the syllable with a vertical line as Udaatta, because
Udaatta is supposed to be the high note.  In reality, the syllable with
the vertical line above is always a Svarita, the syllable with the
horizontal line underneath is called Sannatara, a prosodic transformation
of the Anudaatta, and the unmarked syllables are either Udaatta or a
variety of Anudaatta.  The ancient recitational traditions recorded in the
Praatizaakhyas make it clear that the Svarita is not a middle pitch, but a
composite syllable with an initial Udaatta segment followed by an
Anudaatta segment.  This initial portion of the Svarita, according to a
number of Praatizaakhya traditions is uttered as Udaattatara, higher than
the pitch of the Udaatta.  Similarly, an Anudaatta syllable before an
Udaatta becomes Sannatara, lower than the normal level of Anudaatta, and
is marked with a horizontal line underneath.  Thus, the written notation
captures the "higher than the high Udaatta" nature of the Svarita's
initial segment with a vertical line above, and the "lower than Anudaatta"
nature of the Sannatara syllable with a horizontal line underneath.  The
unmarked Udaatta and Anudaatta syllables are often not distinguished in
recitational pitch, both collapsing into a middle pitch, a sort of default
from which one moves up (for Svarita) and down (for Sannatara).
        However, since most reciters do not know the rules of accents, and
carry a belief that the high note is Udaatta, mid note is Svarita, and the
low note is Anudaatta, a mistaken belief about Svarita as Udaatta does
result.  Hope this explains some of the confusion.  Best,
                                        Madhav Deshpande
On Tue, 18 Jan 2000, Harry Spier wrote:
