Indology Technology Methodology: E-textnology
Dominik and List:
In a forthcoming publication, I'm explaining and introducing a new suite
of tools and technology for research in Indology.  There will be working
examples, a full set of resources, tools (which are free), etc.  I'm
figuring there will be follow-up questions and inquiries as to added
applications of the techniques.
My question pertains to the parameters of this list.  I know in the old
days of the list, methodology and technology figured prominently (and,
unfortunately, often used to devolve into font discussions ad infinitem).
It's been a while since the possibilities of electronic text (e-text)
technology --or "e-textnology"--has been discussed widely. I would like to
refer readers of the publication to a list (preferably this one) for
discussion as it would be --it seems-- relevant to this forum, though
perhaps more methodological and even technical in focus than we've been
for a while.
Is this something to which folks would be amenable?  I can promise that
the tools are quite learnable and accessible, and do a great deal more
than the rudimentary search-n-find/cut-n-paste stuff which has been the
predominant resources until now.  I estimate the traffic to not be overly
extensive, but productive.  Beginning sometime in teh next couple months.
thanks in advance,
jr
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-==-=-=-=
John Robert Gardner
ATLA-CERTR
Emory University
http://vedavid.org/diss/
"If there is something you're thinking of doing, or wish you could do,
begin it.  In boldness there is mystery and power . . . . "  -Goethe
