One more try re: AnusvAra in Vedic Recitation
Since the recitational practices of one Vedic tradition have a tendency of
influencing the recitation of texts which originally do not belong to that
tradition, one finds this *gu~/ga.m/ etc. pronunciation of the Anusvaara
in unexpected places.  While reciting the line sa.mhitaa sandhi.h in the
Ga.napati-Atharva-Ziir.sa, I was taught to recite it as sagu~hitaa
sandhi.h.  Normally the pronunciation of the anusvaara in this environment
in the general Marathi area is sa~vhitaa.  Actually my wife asked me the
other day why I was reciting this line as sagu~hitaa sandhi.h.  To come to
think of it, it is possible that the people who taught me may have been
influenced by the Taittiriiya pronunciation, though my own family is a
Rgvedi family.  A popular text like the Ga.napati-Atharva-Ziir.sa is
recited by people of all Vedic affiliations and its pronunciation would
likely be affected by all sorts of variant ways.  As I was growing up in
Pune, I had the opportunity to join my father several times for the
Zraava.nii ("renewal of the sacred thread") rite, and this particular rite
was attended by Brahmins from various different affiliations, the Zaakala
Rgvedins and Aapastamba/Hira.nyakezin Taittiriiyas.  Everyone would
perform the common parts together, but the main officiating priest would
issue separate instructions where these schools differed from each other.
This confluence of various traditions in the performance of rites would be
a prime occasion where there would be mutual influences in pronunciation
and other areas.  Best,
                                Madhav Deshpande
On Mon, 14 Feb 2000, Michael Witzel wrote:
