Horse & BMAC & TM
Claude Setzer <cssetzer at MUM.EDU> wrote:
of
and
And in my own report.  But an E-mail to a discussion list is not a Ph.D.
thesis, so perhaps you may forgive me for not enumerating all the details
here.
0.1%
7,000.
In the election manifestoes of the NLP of a number of countries, the number
of 7,000 "yogic fliers" is given as the target for the country itself.  But
I'll readily accept any correction on these data which you may offer.
US,
Writing for the generally skeptical readership of Trends business magazine,
I did point these things out.  On the other hand, these data have so far not
kept professional skeptics (Skeptical Enquirer and the like) from dismissing
the claims for Transcendental Meditation, so even more convincing data are
called for.  But in principle I still concede that there may be something to
it.  Recent news of prayer being shown to be effective in prolonging the
lives of terminal patients might be cited as another indication that good
vibrations have a tangible effect.   In the little paragraph of mine which
you read, I did not intend to judge TM one way or the other, merely to point
out that scholars are much less attracted to this than scientists are.
Indologists might look up what the Yoga Sutra or the Shiva Sutra have to say
about the effect of yoga on the yogi's environment, and what about siddhis
like levitation, and that would not uniformly support the Maharishi's
teachings.  But if you care to know my opinion, I think that a possibly good
project of promoting meditation and putting it to some socially beneficial
use has been delivered to ridicule with this levitation gimmick, especially
since after all these years of hopping, not one TM champion has been seen
flying.
 K. Elst
