=?utf-8?Q?.dombii_as_=EF=BF=BDscavenger_woman=EF=BF=BD?=
Could any list members help me out?
The Sanskrit term .dombii has been translated (Eliade
and Walker) as ?washer woman.? But I cannot understand
how they get ?washer woman? from .dombii. One list
member has suggested that .dombii actually refers to a
female member of the .Dom community. They are workers
at cremation places, scavengers, or weavers of ropes
and baskets. It has also been drawn to my attention
that a class of untouchables apparently related to the
.Dom still exist in India today. These are the
.Dombari who traditionally only eat leftovers and
rotten food. They work as scavengers and street
acrobats. Some of them walk around town whipping
themselves with a long, thick rope while soliciting
money from passers-by. They have a major settlement on
the outskirts of Belgaum, Karnataka. The women go
around begging for leftover food from the better-off
households. They refuse to eat fresh food, at least
the old generation does. The modern term for the
female members is .Dombin?.
Question: Is it a case (then) of Eliade and Walker
mistaking .dombii for a female dhobi, i.e., ?laundry
person.? Because is see no connection to ?washer?
here.
Thanks.
-Troy Harris
Do You Yahoo!?
Send online invitations with Yahoo! Invites.
http://invites.yahoo.com
