From magier at COLUMBIA.EDU  Mon Jul 10 18:08:48 2000
From: magier at COLUMBIA.EDU (David Magier)
Date: Mon, 10 Jul 00 14:08:48 -0400
Subject: POSITION ANNOUNCEMENT
Message-ID: <161227059772.23782.5540802258231739825.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

The following position announcement is being forwarded to your mailing
list or listserv from the JOB POSTINGS section of SARAI. Please contact
University of Chicago directly for any further information.

David Magier
http://www.columbia.edu/cu/libraries/indiv/area/sarai

===========================================
POSITION:
Assistant Director for Southern Asian Studies (University of Chicago)

Applications for the position of Assistant Director for Southern Asian
Studies should be mailed to the South Asia Language and Area Center;
University of Chicago; 5848 South University Avenue, Room K-311;
Chicago, Illinois 60637 before August 15, 2000 to ensure consideration
during the first review of applicants. Alternatively a faxed copy may
be sent to 773-702-1309.  Please include the names and contact
information for three references.

For further information please contact James Nye at 773-702-8430
(after August 1) or Norman Cutler at 773-702-8643.

JOB TITLE: Assistant Director for Southern Asian Studies

DIVISION: Humanities

DEPARTMENT: Committee on Southern Asian Studies and South Asia
Language and Area Center

CLASSIFICATION: E-30

SALARY RANGE: $31,897 - 57,884

DESIRED STARTING DATE: 9/15/00

GENERAL SUMMARY: Reporting to the Chair of the Committee on Southern
Asian Studies (COSAS) and the Director of the South Asia Language and
Area Center (SALAC), the Assistant Director is responsible for
ensuring the effective daily operation of COSAS and SALAC. The
Assistant Director is charged with program planning and execution,
policy making, grants administration, fund raising, office management
and staff supervision.  The Assistant Director exercises considerable
independent judgment and requires a mature, experienced administrator
to competently manage the multiple tasks associated with the position.

PRINCIPAL DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:

Coordinates and supervises COSAS and SALAC-sponsored events and
programs including seminars, conferences, public lectures, visiting
scholars program, and outreach activities.

Exercises financial oversight on all COSAS endowed funds and SALAC
grants from the federal government and private foundations.

Develops short- and long-term programmatic and administrative goals
for COSAS and SALAC; develops and administers policies and procedures
in conjunction with the Chair of COSAS and Director of SALC. Seeks new
funding opportunities; writes grant proposals in collaboration with
the Chair and Director.

Supervises data collection for COSAS and SALAC and for university
publications. Administers fellowship competitions, including
dissemination of information on fellowships to student and convening
campus evaluation and selection committees for Fulbright, COSAS, and
FLAS awards. Negotiates award amounts with respective Deans of
Students, the Office of Graduate Affairs, and the Department of
Education Program Officer.

Supervises COSAS and SALAC staff and coordinates workflow.
Responsible for hiring, evaluating, promoting, disciplining and
discharging COSAS and SALAC staff in consultation with the Chair and
Director.

Serves as liaison with other South Asia National Resource Centers, the
Department of Education, private foundations and University
Divisions. Fosters linkages with other institutions including
professional associations, community groups, and universities.
Administers the Friends of South Asia program, a philanthropic
organization for support of South Asian studies at the University.

Depending upon qualifications and needs of the program, teaches in the
South Asian Civilizations sequence of courses and advises B.A.
concentrators in South Asian Studies.

QUALIFICATIONS:

Education: Candidates should hold a Master's or higher degree.
Preference will be given to candidates with substantive coursework in
South Asian studies.

Experience: Candidates should possess proven organizational abilities
and two or more years of experience in a position of comparable
responsibility and initiative.

Skills: Candidates should possess excellent intellectual,
administrative, and human relations skills. Effective oral and written
communication skills and computer literacy are essential. Candidates
must demonstrate the ability to conceptualize and implement major
initiatives such as seminars, conferences, grant proposals, exchange
programs and outreach events. The ability to collaborate well in a
small staff environment and to lead in a manner conducive to positive
staff morale is also important. Proficiency in a major South Asian
language is highly desirable.

DISCLAIMER: The above statements are intended to describe the general
nature and level of the work being performed by people assigned to
this job. They are not intended to be an exhaustive list of all
responsibilities, duties, and skills required of the incumbent.




