From asharan at ENGR.MUN.CA  Tue Sep  5 10:23:18 2000
From: asharan at ENGR.MUN.CA (Anand M. Sharan)
Date: Tue, 05 Sep 00 11:23:18 +0100
Subject: IS IT THE TIME TO COME UP WITH A NEW CONSTITUTION FOR INDIA ?
Message-ID: <161227061373.23782.13950964852640602855.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

Dear Mr. Parmar:
                 Thank you very much for your cooments, and interest on
this topic . There is no question of forgetting the land which was so rich
in philosophy but the trying times came in the history of India, and they
are mentioned in the scriptures . It is the ability to " Discriminate "
which is not a simple thing. I do not know how much you are familiar with
Mahabharat and Geeta, but I cite an instance from it, which shows that
Mahabharat occurs time and time again, and I will also give an example
where how such a problem was handled successfully in U.S.A. Both instances
are very famous . In the latter case, I was in North America, and watching
how these two ( Indian a, and American ) handle such a difficult proble.

The first is the Mahabharat > Draupdi was the wife of Pandavas , the five
brothers . Yudhishthira lost in  gambling, the bet included his wife,
Draupdi. Duryodhana, the son of the King , had grudge on her, because she
had laughed at him while he ( Duryodhana ) was visiting Indrashpath ( the
spelling could be wrong ), where he got confused with the fact where was
water ( Jal ) , and where was thala ( land ) . He walked into water .
Draupdi said to him that Andhey Ka Putra Andhaa ( Blind persons son is
blind ) . It is true that Draupdi should not have uttered such a word . In
any case, this fellow Duryodhana wanted to disrobe her in front of every
one in the Durbar ( King's Court ) . He asked his brother to disrobe her .
At this Draupdi pleaded with her husband, Yudhishthira, who had lost him ,
and similarly , to others . All said that they were Vachan baddha  ( bound
by their words ) . So they could not help her . There was another gentleman
in the court, the elder, Bhishmapithamah . She requested him to intervene,
but he said that heis loyalty was with the crown . Ultimately, it was the
Lord Krishna who gave her the , practically infinite length cloth. So, the
Dharma, was protected. In hinduism, as I understand, truth is relative.
This means, what is the truth under one situation, it may not be under
other situation. Unlike christianity, hindus do not have dos and donts . It
was the Dharma of those who were present in the court to come to Draudi's
help and protect her laaj ( honour ) . Being bound by words, or
unconditional loyalty to the king, is a blind faith, and the person is not
using the God given ability to human beings - Vivek . Unfortunately, people
in even high positions including these politicians lack in it . The courts,
also made up of humans, have the same problem.

Now, I am showing another situation, it was in U.S.A. - a christian
country, practically . It happened with Nixon in the Watergate Scandal . He
would not reveal the truth . He was using executive privilege to hide the
facts from Sam Irvin, who was holding the hearings of the Senate . Nixon
could not succed because ( a ) The judge Sirica ruled that he was not above
the law and could not withhold the materials which included the famous
tapes , the existence of which was revealed by Alexander Butterfield . The
tapes were found to be erased by Nixon. Thus , that ended the Nixon era,
and the Dharma - the truth , was upheld.

We live in comlex situations, and the decisions have to be made from one
situation to another .

Now, coming to the constitution, the Central Government presently, a
convenient escape route . It is throwing every thing on the State
Government . If the constitution was amended , and which empowered the
Central Government to go with whatever force it needs to correct the
problem, then this will not happen. I am not saying what is not happening .
In U.S.A. the Federal Marshals go into the states .

You are talking about the problems of minorities,and I am talking about the
problems of majority . When the criminals take over, it does not matter
whether it is a majority or a minority . In this day and age, a few persons
holding lethal power , can bring devastation in the world.

In hindi or urdu - there is a proverb - Lakir ke Fakir . That is what a lot
of people holding the position of powerm are who are hesitant to take
action- even though it is the Dharma , on any religion, or any society .

It gives even more reason to you to support my case.

Regards,

Anand M. Sharan




