IS IT THE TIME TO COME UP WITH A NEW CONSTITUTION FOR INDIA ?
I do not know if this is an appropriate forum to discuss this topic . I
have grown up in India, and presently living in North America for many
years . I grew up in India right at the time of independence. India had won
its independence in an unique way which is unparallel in history . The
independence movement , some say started from the time of Shivajee, and
some others, from the time of Dadabhai Naoroje etc. People may have
differing opinions about it . In any case, the movement was lead by the
intellectuals . After winning the independence, Gandhijee did not hold any
position of power. The intellectuals primarily drafted the constitution
which, some say was practically left unaltered from a British Document .
Cosmetic changes were made . Whatever be  the truth, the point is: Whenever
the constitution does not protect individuals from law breakers, it ought
to be changed  irrespective of caste, religion etc of the individuals.
In many states in India, the people are leading the livies full of terror .
ItPolice protection or law and order is a joke. Government treasury is
being plundered . Even if , as some say , law will take its course, but if
that takes more than life times of individuals , what sense does it make ?
If this being so, why pretend that India has the best constitution in the
world ?
In contrast, I see that most of the West Europeans, and North American
countries have been able to deal with such problems quite effectively . In
U>S.A. the crime situation is worse, but , openly - no one can defy the law
whereas they make mockery of the law . Where have human right activists
gone ?
Thanks.
Anand M. Sharan
