Types of Indology
   Dear Dr. Raman,
     I am afraid that it will be difficult to apply your classification to
reality. To what category should we refer such scholars as, e.g.,
R.G.Bhandarkar, Vishnu Sukthankar, S.K.Chatterjee, R.N.Dandekar,  B.B.Lal,
R.Thapar, Sh. Ratnagar, Kapila Vatsyayan, and many others, who,
nothwithstanding are they practicing Hindus or not, apply to the facts of
Indian culture the paradigms of world scholarship? They will prove to be
"Exo-Indologists", "cold-blooded" and "having no deep reverence, etc.... for
the Hindu tradition", according to your criteria.
    I would suggest two different categories. There are scholars in the
moderm sence of the world, and traditional scholars. The latter may surpass
some modern scholars in their knowledge of Sanskrit and the sacred texts,
but, staying inside the tradition, they are often unable to view it in
historical perspective.
    Modern scholars and traditional scholars complement each other and could
well cooperate, if they do not focus their dialog on the basic differences
of worldviews.
    To distinguish between modern scholars and traditional scholars is easy.
The difference is not in the measure of love to India or to its religion. A
traditional scholar believes that, e.g., the MahAbhArata was written (or
dictated to Ganesh) by MahArishi VyAsa in the beginning of the Kaliyuga,
i.e. more than 3000 years before common era. The dating of the MahAbhArata
by a modern scholar takes into account all the relevant facts which had been
proven and painstakingly collected by many generations of Indologists.
    Best regards,
Yaroslav Vassilkov
Sent: Thursday, October 26, 2000 6:32 AM
Types of Indology
two
deep
with a
also
of
down
furthering
who
in
who
Puranas
admiration
aspects,
who may
non-Hindu
though
