"Science" in India
The unusual attraction of Indian engineers for pop-Hindu
mythologized history (think of Rajaram, Kak, or many
correspondents on this List) makes a lot of sense if we consider
the current abysmal state of Indian scientific education. See the
scathing cover story in the current issue of OUTLOOK, which among
much else laments the "widespread plagiarism," "pervasive
mediocrity," "mountain of junk papers, with a very low citation
index," and undue emphasis on military technology that currently
characterizes Indian science. There obviously are many top-flight
Indian scientists around -- some quoted in the article -- but on
the average what passes for scientific education in India is
abysmally poor. The emphasis on narrow technological training,
moreover (resulting, as the article puts it, in "an army of
techno-coolies") means that most Indian engineers and scientists
receive virtually no humanistic training at all. If scientific
training is this mediocre in India, why would we expect
first-rate thinking when Indian engineers turn to history.
Please note that OUTLOOK -- which has the widest circulation of
any magazine in India -- is on the whole a fairly nationalistic
magazine. It certainly cannot be accused of India-bashing.
You can read the article online at:
http://www.outlookindia.com/20001023/coverstory.htm
Steve Farmer
Lars Martin Fosse:
