"Science" in India
I wrote (about the recent OUTLOOK article on Indian science):
Vidyasankar Sundaresan responded:
This is my conclusion, Vidyasankar, not based on the article but
on recent discussions I've had with Indian grad students in
engineering and the sciences. One guy I talked to the other day
getting his Ph.D. (in physics?) at Stanford - really intelligent
- admitted to me that all he had *ever* had in school was
scientific training. This, of course, is a problem with US
science grad students today as well: There is an old comedy
routine about engineers going to "More Science High School" in
the US. Anyway, my friend told me that he knew nothing at all
about ancient India until he heard Subhash Kak (an engineer, of
course) speak at Stanford, several weeks before! His first
question for me: What did I think of the "revolutionary" studies
David Frawley?!
Or because they don't have the funding. But you are only proving
my point for me: What the OUTLOOK article refers to as
"techno-coolies" are, in fact, among those who fall hardest for
the Hindutva mythologizing of history, in part because they have
no meaningful humanistic training at all.
Yes, I think that "pop-Christian" and similar terms are
appropriate labels for people who fall for the "Bible Code"
nonsense (hidden meanings in the old texts, etc.). Nice ring to
them, really. :^)
Steve
