From troyoga at YAHOO.COM  Wed Oct  4 10:45:54 2000
From: troyoga at YAHOO.COM (Ven. Tantra)
Date: Wed, 04 Oct 00 03:45:54 -0700
Subject: Hinduism: once was: RAJARAM EPISODE
Message-ID: <161227062164.23782.16342288571146250887.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

Vidyasankar Sundaresan wrote:

<<...does anyone have a consistent and comprehensive
statement of Hindu-ism as defining *a* religious
community? If so, I would very much like to know what
it is.>>

Dear Sir,

Echoing the sentiment of Santosh N. Desai in his
_Hinduism in Thai Life_ (Bombay: Popular Prakashan,
1980), 2-3, n., I would submit the following ? if only
a gambit ? in attempt to formulate a consistent and
comprehensive statement on Hindu-ism as defining a
religious community:

The term ?Hindu? can only be used in a broad
cultural-anthropological sense vis-?-vis artifacts
derived or developed from the civilizations east of
the Indus River, particularly before the arrival of
Islam. This definition would include Aboriginal as
well as non-Aboriginal components, Aryanism and
non-Aryanism, Vedism, orthodox Braahmanism, the Bhakti
traditions as practiced in Vai.s.navism and Zaivism,
and the Zakti-cult as well. The "heterodox"
philosophies of Jainism, Buddhism, et al, would also
form part of it.

Most civily yours,

Ven. Tantra

__________________________________________________
Do You Yahoo!?
Yahoo! Photos - 35mm Quality Prints, Now Get 15 Free!
http://photos.yahoo.com/




