PaNis on Lebanese Coast
I do not think that DAsas or Dasyus were spread from Central Asia all the
way to North or South India(Ref:"The Heritage of Central Asia" by Dr.
Richard N.Frye-Harvard University). DAhas or DAsas were located in the
north of the ancient Persia and east of the Caspian Sea.They were cousin
brothers of Aryas and of Turyas(Turanians or Turks)of the ancient region of
roughly the modern Turkmenistan. Days of teletransferring DAhas and Dasyus
from the east of Caspian Sea to the east of Khyber Pass are behind us.I am
inclined to identify RV PaNis with the ancient Phoenicians of Lebanese
coast. In the known history (roughly between 300 BCE and 50 ADE), the north
African outpost Carthage of Phoenicians was destroyed by Roman Empire in
three wars. These wars are known as the Punic wars (Wars with PaNis) in the
European history. The ancient Phoenician king Hiram built the temple of the
Jewish king Solomon around 1000 BCE.According to Prof.Witzel(Substrate
Languages in Old Indo-Aryan-June 1999-67 pages), the Rigvedic period was
spread from 1700 BCE to 1200 BCE.If PaNis were on the Lebanese coast in
1000 BCE, what could prevent them from being there in 1700 or 2000 BCE?The
ancient PaNis were traders "par excellence".They used to have the trade
with the South India through the Red Sea as well as with the ancient
Egyptians and Hurrians.I do not see any reason for PaNis around Delhi area
at RV period and I do not believe the ancient Dravidians from the Northwest
region of the sub-continent would engage themselves in despicable act of
stealing cows of Indra. Are there any strong reasons not to place RV PaNis
in their ancetral home on the ancient Lebanese coast? Please correct me if
I am wrong. Thanks.
