Differences between oral and written Taittiriya Samhita
This question points to one more dilemma, not just in western
transcription of Vedic texts, but also in recognizing where the end of a
metrical line occurs.  The end of a metrical line is obviously clear in
metrical texts.  This allows a clear demarcation of the so called
ardharca, where the sandhi-continuity ends in recitation.  This becomes
particularly a problem in the prose texts.  There are traditional ways of
marking the so called avasaanas even in prose texts, such as the
repetition with -iti- in the middle, x-iti-x, in the recitation of
Vikk.rtis like Ja.taapaa.tha.  For the particular example cited by Harry
Spier, it looks like the divisions of the text into 4.5.2, 4.5.3 etc. mark
the units which end in Avasaanas, but the sub-divisions of 4.5.2 into
4.5.2.1 etc. do not end in Avasaanas.  This seems to be indicated in the
Satavalekar edition of the TS, where only at the end of 4.5.2 we find the
word nama.h not subject to combination with the following.  The
subsections like 4.4.2.1 are directly combined in sandhi with the next
segments and hence we see namo at the end of one and namo at the beginning
of the next, because for the reciters this is a continuous text.  Problems
like that exist also in the prose parts of the Zaunakiiya AV (15th
Kaa.n.da) and are resolved clearly only in the Ja.taapaa.tha.  I have
prepared a critical edition of some of these Vik.rtipaa.thas of the
Zaunakiiya AV, and marking the Avasaanas is one of the important feature
seen there.  Best,
                                        Madhav Deshpande
On Tue, 21 Nov 2000, Harry Spier wrote:
