vidyaa? From you own experience please.

My own take on this is that when goddess/consorts
entered Mahaayaana their external associations with
fecundity and the life-giving energy of earth,
vis-a-vis Ziva?s better half, and the strong connected
to The Sacred Mountain, etc. were set aside ? in so
far as that was possible ? in preference of the
internal mirror-like imagery of Her intelligence,
discernment, illumination and compassion. With the
"later Buddhist yoginii tantras" (as you mention) I
suppose this interiority was maintained but in a
rather laya-yogic/body-energy sort of way. All the
same, the Buddhist devis are fundamentally aspects of
zakti, here seeing "zakti" symbolically, and using it
as a general anthropological interpretive tool. Thus,
in the Buddha-cult, zakti are typically conceived as
embodiments of the active feminine
intelligence-function and commonly depicted in
passionate embrace with their "active" male consorts,
vis-?-vis Vajra-dhara (=Ziva-Buddha). Call this
"reductionism" if you like, i.e., reducing things to a
common interpretive format? or "destructuralism,"
making things strange. These are not bad labels. These
are appropriate methodologies for one who is not
interpreting things from within the church of
traditional commentary. Independent religious
anthropologists find no fun in that.

<< OK, perhaps a bit hyperbolic. But my point is that
Walker (and others) are extrapolating from just one
text and apparently generalizing . . . His further
statement, that the truth discovered by Gautama is
that "Buddhahood abides in the female organ" seems a
bizarre fiction of his own making. I wonder what his
grounds are for saying this, given that "Gautama" is
never one of the persona dramatis in the relevant
tantras . . . to state this of Gautama seems rather
sloppy scholarship>>

Is not the entire Tantric literature a bizarre fiction
of somebody's making? Why are we so attracted to it? I
am not offended by any of this. Perhaps his reasons,
if any, were the same as why we translate vidyaa as
"consort." In other words: How to convey the
iconographic dramaturgy? The Tathagata is supposed to
mean something like "The Buddha." The Buddha is
supposed to mean something like "Gautama." Perhaps its
to make people scratch their heads and figure out what
this vast Buddhic enterprise has been up to all along.

<<Publishers & Sensationalism.>>

It?s a publishers market. To publish implies a
literate public. (Who reads Sanskrit?) But as humans,
indeed, we are sensual beings. The whole tantric
episode could well be interpreted as an exercise in
sublimated tabloid scandal-mongering in order to
arouse a diverted public. And by stashing Truth in the
virgin?s little jungle book, the punters come
a-panting in their gallant bid to unseat the living
goddess!

Regarding Benjamin Walker, please don't presume that
citing equals endorsing. Books are awfully scarce
around here. . . I've run too long. Shows what "I"
know.

The Malabar jasmine blooms at noon ? right outside my
cave.

high regards,

VT

References:

1.) Eliade, Mircea. _Yoga: Immortality and Freedom_.
Translated from the original French (Paris, 1954) by
Wilard R. Trask. Bollingen Series LVI. New York:
Pantheon Books, 1964.
2.) Hodge, Stephen. ?Buddhist Goddess Identification.?
Email. Indology Archives.
<http://listserv.linguistlist.org/cgi-bin/wa?A2=ind0005&L=indology&D=1&O=D&P=3964>,
8 May 2000.
3.) Walker, Benjamin. Hindu World: An Encyclopedic
Survey of Hinduism_ London: George Allen and Unwin,
Ltd., 1968.



__________________________________________________
Do You Yahoo!?
Thousands of Stores.  Millions of Products.  All in one Place.
http://shopping.yahoo.com/




