From vsundaresan at HOTMAIL.COM  Sun Nov 12 09:04:14 2000
From: vsundaresan at HOTMAIL.COM (Vidyasankar Sundaresan)
Date: Sun, 12 Nov 00 09:04:14 +0000
Subject: pseudochariot - K.D. Sethna
Message-ID: <161227064039.23782.16326434815453030566.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

Re: K. D. Sethna's connection to the Aurobindo Ashram -

I was simply unaware of it, till I checked my email today
and noticed that a kind Indologist, perhaps the same one
who wrote to Steve Farmer, had written to me privately
about it too. There was no deliberate intent to misinform
people about his affiliations. Well, this is another case
where deducing things merely from a man's name has turned
out to be mistaken.

However, from what little I know about the Auroville-ians,
I don't see an overt link between them and any particular
political crowd. Whatever connection seems to be there
arises primarily from Aurobindo's own reinterpretations of
Rgveda, that agree neither with modern philology nor with
the traditional sAyaNa. Perhaps someone may want to pay
some attention to Aurobindo's writings too. As academic
scholars, you must distinguish between Hindu groups of a
primarily religious nature, and political groups that are
branded with the name Hindutva.

Vidyasankar

_________________________________________________________________________
Get Your Private, Free E-mail from MSN Hotmail at http://www.hotmail.com.

Share information about yourself, create your own public profile at
http://profiles.msn.com.




