Origins of the "double-truth"
Dear listmembers,
Greece, like Cyprus, was part of the ancient Near East. We should not draw
an artificial border line between Greece and the Orient, nor was there any
such border line between India and the Near East. Migrant craftsmen,
healers, purification priests, diviners, etc. from the East were common in
Greece from the early archaic age. Themistocles, who died at Magnesia in
459 BC, learned Persian many decades before Plato wrote his dialogues, and
he would not have been the first or only Greek to do so. Greek poetry and
intellectual traditions owe much to the Near East, and Herodotus attributed
all kinds of inventions to Egypt (which comprised the Levant). Walter
Burkert wrote in THE ORIENTALIZING REVOLUTION: "Culture is not a plant
sprouting from its seed in isolation; it is a continuous process of
learning guided by curiosity along with practical needs and interests. It
grows especially through a willingness to learn from what is 'other', what
is strange and foreign."
Given the 'otherness' of India, even before Buddhism, I would say it is
very likely that Greek philosophers would have heard about and been
interested in early Indian thinking. Plato's forerunners Parmenides and
Pythagoras "smell of" mother India. I do not understand why Plato (fourth
century BC) could not have heard of Buddhist philosophy? What is wrong with
my dates?
Best wishes,
Bjarte Kaldhol
of
Greek
best
the
seen.
is
Plato,
error
a
if
ultimate
