Languages ( was : Yiddish translation of Gita
This question could lead  us to the indian speculations about language. The
spotha theory, for example. The ancient philosophy of grammar treated this
highly important topic in connection with the theory of eternal sounds, etc.
But just to remain more close to modern western paradigm I would like to
point out that the values to be transmitted by any language- neutral as you
say- are not always very well transmitted. Values are also underlying
intentions or constitutents ( to use Adorno's aesthetic terminology ).
Thus Joyces Ulysses translated into German lost terribly in its underlying
values ( rythm, richness of images, interplay of sounds, etc ). The same is
valid for the Japanese translations of the Finnegans Wake ( there are three
of them ). That's a heroic tour de force and quite a linguistic chalenge.
Great merit, but perhaps dangerous in the case of certain classical texts if
there is not a reservoir of similar concepts capable to match. Not a few of
the early ( and even  later ) translations of  Chinese classics into
European languages were disastrous, to say the least.Those  translators
didn't have living matching concepts to do a proper job ( they didn't have
often also the intention, since if they did it  would mean to contest and
put at stake their own christian values ).I do believe the G?t? must have
been translated into Yiddish by highly intellectual people ( although I
didn't check it yet :-) ) and all the efforts were for sure done in order to
bring as close as possible such a universe of  different philosophical
concepts as that of the Hindu civilization aiming at specific audience of
readers. But still it sounds exotic to me and that's the reason for my
initial remark.
Best regards
