of azUdra'. From this latter passage the prohibition of studying the Veda
results at once; for how should he study Scripture in whose vicinity it is not
even to be read? There is, moreover, an express prohibition (of the zUdras
studying the Veda). 'His tongue is to be slit if he pronounces it; his body is
to be cut through if he preserves it....'"

If it is argued that he was just commenting on somebody else's sUtra, one can
see the qualifications he sets for a spiritual teacher in his upadeza sAhasri.
Here he says only a brahmaNa can be a teacher. He excludes even kSatriyas. So,
when some  insist that advaita is the ultimate concept of universality, and
zankara was its greatest exponent, one has to wonder what type of universal
vision they are talking about.

If the following questions by Zydenbos w.r.t  Vivekananda were to be raised
against zankara, I wonder what the answers might be.

<<Please answer these questions (if not in public, then at least for
yourself):
(a) do you respect such a mentality / person?
(b) do you seriously expect me to respect such a mentality / person?
(c) should scholars respect such a mentality / person?>>

As for Vivekananda's statements, "Civilisations have risen in other parts of
the world... great ideas have emanated from strong and great races... India...
peacefully existed... when even Greece did not exist, when Rome was not
thought of, when the very fathers of the modern Europeans lived in the forests
and painted themselves blue", etc. etc. (from "FirstPublic Lecture in the
East").", one should probably look for its inspiration in  "On Liberty", the
work by John Stuart Mill (and his wife). (I remember reading in one of
Ambedkar's works that Mill's writings were popular among Indian nationalists
in the beginning of the 20th century.)

Talking about the despotism of Custom, Mill says, "This is the case over the
whole East. Custom is there, in all things, the final appeal; justice and
right mean conformity to custom; the argument of custom no one, unless some
tyrant intoxicated with power, thinks of resisting. And we see the result.
Those nations must once have  had originality; they did not start out of the
ground populous, lettered, and versed in many of the arts of life; they made
themselves all this, and were then the greatest and most powerful nations in
the world. What are they now? The subjects or dependents of tribes whose
forefathers wandered in the forests when theirs had magnificent places and
gorgeous temples, but over whom custom exercised only a divided rule with
liberty and progress."  J. S. Mill, retired as the Examiner of India
Correspondence for East India Company in England in 1858, the same year in
which his essay "On Liberty" was completed.

Regards

S. Palaniappan




