Inscriptions and Dravidian sound changes "y" > "c" and "y" >              "t"
There is a phenomenon called hypecorrection; since c>y is related as
old-later, some crackpot at a later date would represent an underlying -y-
form by -c- thinking that he was writing an older spelling. A good example
is inscriptionl mata-c:nai for mata-ya:nai. So if there were many crackpots
like that, it would even mislead us as a sound change.
In Sanskrit there is a  fricative y and a semi-vowel y (both probably
occurred in complemenary distribution). The first one as in yama, yamuna:,
etc was a fricative like Modern German J or English y in yes.  Prakrit
develops j- (palatal affricate) out of it,e.g. jama-, jamuna:. The Dravidian
*y was not a fricative. It was a frictionless continuant. Kui kaju for *kay
is a doubtful transcription; I have to check how regular is *y = Kui j. I
know Schulze a German wrote j for y. PD *c and *y fell together in most of
the languages but the distinciton is preserved by some members (particularly
Kannada). where Ka also has an intervocalic -y- (bayal) it goes to PD *y. So
Kannada holds the clue for PD reconstriction (Ta. poy = Ka. pusi <*posi 'a
lie'; PD *poc-).
Please check the chronology of -c- ~ -y- forms in Tamil. Are the-c- forms
older or -y- forms in terms of literary attestation? You  have to examine a
sound change from a number of angles before making generalizations about
others' scholarship. Bh.K.
At 15:48 23/05/98 EDT, you wrote:
 >Indeed, my examination of inscriptional evidence showed irrefutable evidence
