Telugu history
of either Indology or Dravidology. Then people will ask you what are your
credentials? Please let the people know what  you have published in these
areas? This list must be confined to those who have a scholarly curiosity
and not any other. I mentioned in my posting that your inquiry itself  was
political and you denied it. I will tell you how.
to Sanskrit as Telugu did. Then you raised a silly question if it was due to
many brahmins moving from  other places to Andhra under the threat of
muslims (corrected and edited)? What kind of scholarly inquiry is this? What
is your evidence of Brahmins moving out into Andhra, when and why? What are
your sources? All that you wanted to "establish to the sholarly world" was
that Tamil had less of Sanskrit vocabulary and Telugu has more without any
studies or evidence.
the most influenced by Sanskrit between pre-CE and the middle ages. Because
West Coast Tamil was the most influenced and it later became Malayalam. If
you had a scholarly bent of mind you should have asked the question why was
Tamil influenced first by Sanskrit so extensively  than the other languages?
That would have helped many persons including me to know things that we did
not. know. Because, I never bothered to know this aspect although it was
interesting.
any other Drav. language. We had no records. Sanskrit and Pkt. s- became
zero in  borrowings in Early Tamil; thus you have avai <sabha: 'assembly',,
amaya  <samaya 'time', e:Ni < se:Ni <sre:Ni 'ladder', a:yiram <sa:siram
<sahasiram <sahasram- '
