From smittal at RELIGION.UFL.EDU  Mon Aug 24 00:26:23 1998
From: smittal at RELIGION.UFL.EDU (Sushil Mittal)
Date: Sun, 23 Aug 98 20:26:23 -0400
Subject: CFP: _International Journal of Hindu Studies_
Message-ID: <161227041204.23782.15043375296988895682.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

                                                               Call for Papers


                   International Journal of Hindu Studies
                 ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^


The aim of the _International Journal of Hindu Studies_ is to examine
Hinduism centrally and in a special way. It wishes to consider Hinduism
analytically and comparatively as a "form of life" as clarified by its
contrasts and similarities to other historical and present day forms. This
is to say that we will be less concerned with the intrinsic forms of
Hinduism and its history, as illuminated by philological and descriptive
studies.  Rather, our focus will be, on the one hand, on Hinduism's
adaptations to a wide range of historical circumstances and ecological,
economic, and political possibilities and, on the other, on the Hindu
forms that work "on the ground" in particular places and times to generate
special kinds of social, cultural, and psychological order and problems.

We consider this to be necessarily a comparative exploration and welcome
(and need) contributions from scholars in other fields who wish to bring
their own studies of religion, world views, theories of modernity and
pre-modernity, social organization and social control, and so on, into
dialogue with Hindu studies. We equally encourage South Asia scholars to
explore such perspectives in their own work.

We wish to explore whether it may be productive to ask--in addition to the
descriptive "_What_ is Hinduism?"--the theoretical question (or questions,
for we expect there is a large and productive set of answers) "_Why_ is
Hinduism the way it is?"

The Journal, therefore, invites submissions of a comparative or theoretical
nature in all fields of the social sciences and humanities in the hope of
furthering a dialogue that centers on one of the great human creations,
Hinduism, which differs in so many respects from the religions and
societies that have informed much of classical Western thought.

Articles falling within the broad and deliberately somewhat vague
boundaries we envisage will be chosen on the basis of the quality,
importance and general interest of the research, the force of theoretical
argument, and felicity of expression. Three copies of the paper should be
submitted. IJHS is a double-blind, peer-reviewed journal, and all
submissions are reviewed by at least two independent reviewers.

Completed manuscripts and inquiries about material for possible publication
should be sent to the Editor:

                                    Dr. Sushil Mittal
                                    University of Florida
                                    Department of Religion
                                    125 Dauer Hall, PO Box 117410
                                    Gainesville, Florida 32611-7410, USA

                                    Tel (352) 392-1625, Fax (352) 392-7395
                                    Email <smittal at religion.ufl.edu>.

_International Journal of Hindu Studies_ (ISSN 1022-4556) is published
three times a year in April, August, and December. Annual subscription
rates: Institutional: $150 (North America); $156 (Rest of world).
Individual: $60 (North America); $66 (Rest of world). Students: $30 (North
America); $36 (Rest of world). Orders from outside Canada must be paid in
US dollars. Prices include postage.

To order a subscription, to receive advertising information, or to reserve
ad space in the Journal, contact:

                                    World Heritage Press, Inc.
                                    Journals Department
                                    1270 St-Jean
                                    St-Hyacinthe, Quebec
                                    Canada J2S 8M2

                                    Tel (514) 771-0213, Fax (514) 771-2776

 =========================================================================
Full details on _International Journal of Hindu Studies_ can be found on
the Journal Homepage at: http://www.clas.ufl.edu/users/gthursby/ijhs/
 =========================================================================




