Kusunda et al.
"Bh.Krishnamurti" <bhk at HD1.VSNL.NET.IN> wrote:
Maybe it's because I'm Spanish, but I don't think w > v > b is
unexpected at all: it's rather commonplace.  The changes k > x
(except before i) and c > k (before u) are natural enough (the front
vowel prevents spirantization (<backing?), the back vowel causes
backing [was PDr. *c a palatal stop?]), but it is true that I have
never seen that particular combination of sound changes under those
particular conditions before.  We can see them, but certainly not not
w > b, as rather strong evidence of a Northern Dravidian group.  But
I still don't understand how that proves the direction or the date of
movement.
If I understand the argument about the phonological enviroment
properly, I take it that neither Proto-North-Dravidian *i(:) nor
*u(:) have changed since the two sound laws took place (although I
see that Zvelebil in the EB claims that: "Compared to the
reconstructed system of Proto-Dravidian phonemes (distinctive
sounds), the most striking developments in vowels are the gradual
elimination of the contrast between e and e: (long e) and o and o:
(long o) in Brahui, as a result of the influence of Indo-Aryan
languages or Iranian or both; the raising of Proto-Dravidian *e and
*o to i and u and the lowering of these protolanguage sounds in
Brahui").  But even if the Brahui vowels had not changed, such a
thing would not be amazing.  The pattern /a/ /e/ /i/ /o/ /u/ can be
remarkably stable: we know that Basque (except for the Souletin
dialect) has not changed its vowel system one bit in at least 2000
years.
