Vicious Debate
The "indigenous Aryan" debate has a tendency to get vicious for a very
simple reason.  For people of Indian origin, this issue has close
connections with their own perceptions of their identiy.  Before the
modern period, there were other "vicious debates" in different parts of
India.  For instance, in Maharashtra, many vicious debates developed in
the 16th and 17th century over whether there were true Kshatriyas around
and whether a particular contemporary caste was or was not to be counted
among Shudras.  The ruling Maratha rulers like Shivaji were denied the
status of Kshatriya by many local Brahmanas, including the later Peshwahs
who became the prime ministers of this dynasty.  This was prompted in part
by the Brahmana claim that in the Kali age there were only two Varnas to
be found: Brahmana and Shudra.  The debate over the status of Kayasthas
was equally vicious.  The Brahmanas of Maharashtra were among the first to
begin using the term Arya as a self-referring term in the modern era, and
this term was understood within the context of the contemporary Brahmana
beliefs about there being only two Varnas in the Kali age.  The Brahmana
and Shudra were often replaced with Arya and non-Arya in the 19th century
writings.  Later, the Aryanism proliferated to other movements such as the
Arya Samaj, the Hindu Maha Sabha, the RSS, and BJP/VHP etc.  But one can
historically look at the roots of the ideologies in the 19th century.
                                Madhav Deshpande
On Wed, 2 Dec 1998, N. Ganesan wrote:
