[INDOLOGY] The Buddhist term sutta
 <CAANHO14XkrHHzQ=TiQSBhPB5ORS1Q8dNdg3m9TDSTpD6aJdWTg@mail.gmail.com>
 <24EF1A7D-E179-4A9A-A8FA-D6F225051DA4@wlu.edu>
 <1A881400-2BCA-4FA0-959B-B3C44187E06A@bristol.ac.uk>
 <1B15B525-8CC4-4797-8A34-07C4F9BF42C8@wlu.edu>
 <SA2PR08MB6569DFE8F03E7CA3791C24C9E7539@SA2PR08MB6569.namprd08.prod.outlook.com>
 <CABiu6VyW6z+6abTCfWUtgLvqPfkzuSgBccoHkiSaff=kWBQxXQ@mail.gmail.com>
 <10e3c849-51a1-a34d-14c9-50d6c815e780@fandm.edu>
 <EDE7EBA6-32F9-4269-B88E-CA6F75077BE1@g.harvard.edu>
 <CAKdt-CfUQAEzTeZ118ESBxDteiE4ZCEUMOzNr5bovPBgr1FoEQ@mail.gmail.com>
 <BEA6D733-972E-47CF-8000-E60971E26727@bristol.ac.uk>
 <CALNcvFvzNbcFgxoi9x0Fu85HjBLFgcBi6xH27PVz3G2Mx+FRaQ@mail.gmail.com>
 <CALNcvFu+fMq6UwMZhHPrvY-va3WKN=oiNm_Fd4t0EjcNEKPDGQ@mail.gmail.com>
  Hello Artur,
  I see your point, and it resonates with things I have thought. In the
period in which I am most interested, the exact original etymon of MIA
*sutta* is largely irrelevant?what is crucial is knowing how the term was
understood in the period, namely as equivalent to Sanskrit *s?tra*?and
therefore I have not intervened in the discussion. I believe in the
philological method, and in the absolute need for its technical rigor and
intricacy. At the same time, I personally envision philology as a tool, a
wonderful tool but a tool after all, that can allow us to enrich and deepen
our knowledge of a social, historical, or linguistic past. I understand,
though, that other people do treat philology as a goal in itself, and I
have no objection to that.
  However, I am not sure whether this is exactly the case here. In the
specific case of the etymology of MIA *sutta*, I would argue that knowing
what exactly the practitioners of the ?rama?ic religions viewed as closest
to their sacred discourses can indeed tell us about ancient social
understandings, affinities, or tensions (did they envision their texts as
more akin to the Vedic hymns or to the orthodox ritual manuals?) and about
the chronology of those dynamics.
   I wish, though, that when engaging not only with the general public but
with the field itself, we could be more explicit about the social,
historical, or linguistic relevance of a given philological problem. What
exactly is at stake behind a technical conundrum is not always
crystal-clear even to the professional.
  *namaskaromi*,
  Diego
On Tue, May 11, 2021 at 2:04 PM Artur Karp <karp at uw.edu.pl> wrote:
