From andrew.ollett at gmail.com  Tue Jun 29 13:46:12 2021
From: andrew.ollett at gmail.com (Andrew Ollett)
Date: Tue, 29 Jun 2021 08:46:12 -0500
Subject: [INDOLOGY] Two postdoctoral positions at the Hebrew University of
 Jerusalem
Message-ID: <CAANHO14==RNex-14TTnBaOHR+BjJ1Hi3z8tni+5Bv=vWWUGHLQ@mail.gmail.com>

Dear list members,

I am forwarding a call for applications for two postdoctoral positions at
the Hebrew University of Jerusalem. (One of them has been advertised on
this list before.) You can see the posting here
<https://www.dropbox.com/s/92wbjmo55iho7in/CfA_Light%20on%20the%20light%20and%20NEEM.docx?dl=0>.
Please contact Yigal Bronner (yigal.bronner at mail.huji.ac.il) with questions
about the fellowship in Sanskrit poetics and David Shulman (
ddshulman at yahoo.com) with questions about the fellowship in Early Modern
South India.

Andrew
-------------------------

Two calls for application for postdoctoral fellowships at the Hebrew
University

CfA: Postdoctoral Fellowship in Sanskrit Poetics

The Israel Science Foundation (ISF) project ?Light on The Light:
Scholasticism in Second-millennium South Asia? at The Hebrew University of
Jerusalem under the direction of Prof. Yigal Bronner is offering a
Post-Doctoral scholarship beginning October 1, 2021. Scholars who have
received their Ph.D. after October 1st, 2017 or plan to submit their Ph.D.
no later than October 1st, 2021 are eligible to apply.

The successful candidate will be part of a unique Indological scene at the
Hebrew University and will be welcome to participate in the activities of
the ERC funded NEEM group <https://neemerc.huji.ac.il/people/david-shulman>
headed by Prof. David Shulman. The successful candidate will focus on
commentarial literature on Mammata?s Light on Poetry: their textual
practices, engagements with the Light and other texts, and theoretical
concerns. They will also be in charge of collecting materials and entering
metadata on these commentaries into panditproject.org
<https://www.panditproject.org/>.

This position offers the opportunity to be part of an innovative and
groundbreaking research project which will apply historical, philological,
and prosopographical methods as well as digital design and development. The
appointed fellow will work closely with Prof. Bronner and other graduate
students and postdoctoral fellows at the Hebrew University. S/he is
expected to participate in collaborative outputs and publications.

The scholarship will be granted for a period of up to two years (the
initial appointment is for one year and is subject to review at the end of
the first year). The fellow will receive a monthly stipend of approximately
9,500 NIS. The fellow must be present on campus at least 3 full days a week
and devote 100% of their time to the project and their research. Teaching
is not required, but might be possible if the fellow wishes to. Knowledge
of Hebrew is not required.

Outstanding candidates will be invited to a zoom interview in early August
2021.

Candidates must have:

   - Proven academic excellence
   - Excellent skills in Sanskrit
   - Proven experience in studying Sanskrit poetics (familiarity with
   Mammata?s work is an advantage)
   - Ability to participate in academic discussions in English
   - An interest and ability to work in collaboration
   - Some experience with digital humanities

Interested individuals are requested to submit the following documents (in
one PDF file):

   - Introduction letter describing your academic experience and motivation
   for participating in the project (2-3 pages)
   - Curriculum vitae
   - Abstract of the PhD dissertation (1 page)
   - Letters of evaluation of the PhD dissertation (if available)
   - A writing sample: dissertation chapter or a paper that has been
   published or accepted for publication (no more than 30 pages);
   - Two letters of recommendation to be sent directly to
   yigal.bronner at mail.huji.ac.il.

Please send the requested materials electronically in one PDF file (not
including the letters of recommendation) to: yigal.bronner at mail.huji.ac.il
by August 1, 2021.

CfA: Postdoctoral Fellowship in Early Modern South India

The European Research Council (ERC) project ?The New Ecology of Expressive
Modes in Early Modern South India (NEEM group
<https://neemerc.huji.ac.il/people/david-shulman>) headed by Prof. David
Shulman at The Hebrew University of Jerusalem is offering a Post-Doctoral
scholarship beginning October 1, 2021. Scholars who have received their
Ph.D. after October 1st, 2017 or plan to submit their Ph.D. no later than
October 1st, 2021 are eligible to apply.

The successful candidate will be part of a unique Indological scene at the
Hebrew University and will be welcome to participate in the activities of
the Israel Science Foundation (ISF) funded project ?Light on The Light:
Scholasticism in Second-millennium South Asia? headed by Prof. Yigal
Bronner. The successful candidate is expected to pursue research on texts
(literary, musical, visual, theatrical, or philosophical) in one or more
the South Indian languages and traditions, from the sixteenth to the early
nineteenth centuries. The appointed fellow will work closely with Prof.
Shulman and other graduate students and postdoctoral fellows at the Hebrew
University. S/he is expected to participate in collaborative outputs and
publications.

The scholarship will be granted for a period of one year (extension for a
second year is possible but not very likely). The fellow will receive a
monthly stipend of approximately 9,500 NIS. The fellow must be present on
campus at least 3 full days a week and devote 100% of their time to the
project and their research. Teaching is not required, but might be possible
if the fellow wishes to. Knowledge of Hebrew is not required.

Outstanding candidates will be invited to a zoom interview in early August
2021.

Candidates must have:

   - Proven academic excellence
   - Excellent skills in Sanskrit and at least one South Indian language
   - Ability to participate in academic discussions in English
   - An interest and ability to work in collaboration

Interested individuals are requested to submit the following documents (in
one PDF file):

   - Introduction letter describing your academic experience and motivation
   for participating in the project (2-3 pages)
   - Curriculum vitae
   - Abstract of the PhD dissertation (1 page)
   - Letters of evaluation of the PhD dissertation (if available)
   - A writing sample: dissertation chapter or a paper that has been
   published or accepted for publication (no more than 30 pages);
   - Two letters of recommendation to be sent directly to
   ddshulman at yahoo.com.

Please send the requested materials electronically in one PDF file (not
including the letters of recommendation) to: ddshulman at yahoo.com by August
1, 2021.
-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20210629/d06e5c40/attachment.htm>

