From tubb at uchicago.edu  Sun Sep 15 15:32:02 2013
From: tubb at uchicago.edu (Gary Tubb)
Date: Sun, 15 Sep 13 10:32:02 -0500
Subject: [INDOLOGY] Theravada Civilizations Project dissertation workshop
Message-ID: <5235D2F2.1090904@uchicago.edu>

I am forwarding the following message to the list at the request of my 
colleague, Professor Steven Collins:


*The Theravada Civilizations Project announces:*

A Dissertation Workshop

To be held at University of Pennsylvania, March 25, 2014

/DEADLINE for proposals: January 1^st , 2014. /


The /Theravada Civilizations Project/ is pleased to announce plans for 
an intensive dissertation workshop, which will be held on March 25 2014 
in Philadelphia (preceding the Association for Asian Studies Annual 
Meeting).//

Theravada Buddhism is practiced throughout the world with over 150 
million practitioners settled primarily in Cambodia, Laos, Sri Lanka, 
Burma, Nepal, and Thailand. The South and Southeast Asian diaspora 
communities as well as the rise in global interest in vipassana 
meditation has led to the growth of Theravada Buddhism in the Americas, 
Australia, Japan, and Europe. The scholarly study of Theravada Buddhism 
began with the scrutiny of Pali literature, but now covers many 
disciplines including literature, ethics, anthropology, philology, 
philosophy, history, cultural studies, political science, urban studies, 
and art and material culture.

The/Theravada Civilizations Project/ is comprised of scholars from 
Arizona State University,Bowdoin College, the University of Chicago, 
Cornell University, the ?cole Fran?aise d?Extr?me-Orient, Harvard 
University, the University of Leeds, the University of London,the 
University of Louisville, Missouri State University, the University of 
Pennsylvania, the University of Toronto, the University of Vermont, the 
University of Washington and the University of Wisconsin, and in 
consultation with scholars from a range of other Asian, Australian, and 
European institutions.Adescription of the larger project can be found in 
Juliane Schober and Steven Collins, ?The Therav?da Civilizations 
Project: future directions in the study of Buddhism in Southeast Asia,? 
in the (on-line) Journal/Contemporary Buddhism/, vol. 13 (1), May 2012. 
Since project members and other scholars in the field are based at many 
different locations, graduate students preparing their dissertations do 
not have the opportunity to present and gain detailed feedback on their 
work from several experts in the field.

**

This workshop is intended to bring together doctoral students and/or 
post-doctoral academics in the humanities and social sciences who are 
(1) developing dissertation proposals or are in early phases of 
research, dissertation writing, or revising dissertations for 
publications; and who are (2) engaging some aspects of Theravada 
classical and/or vernacular literature and/or researching aspects of 
Theravada history and cultural practice among South or Southeast Asian 
communities.

The workshop will be limited to 6 doctoral students and/or post doctoral 
academics, ideally from a broad array of disciplines and working on a 
wide variety of materials in a variety of time periods on themes related 
to Theravada traditions and communities in Southeast Asia. It will 
provide a day of intense discussion, presentation, and close review of 
dissertation proposals, outlines, and/or draft review on March 25. 2014.

Priority will be given to doctoral candidates at North American 
universities.

The /Theravada Civilizations Project/ will be able to provide up to 
1,000 US dollars in support for participants to help cover travel and 
accommodation. Meals will be provided at the workshop. Students needing 
additional funds to attend the workshop are encouraged to approach their 
home institutions for support.

Applicants need not have advanced to candidacy but must have at least 
drafted a dissertation research proposal to apply. Applications are also 
welcome from doctoral students in the early phases of writing their 
dissertations, as well as those in the later phases and recent 
post-docs. Applications consist of two items only:

(1) A current Curriculum Vitae, and

(2) A dissertation proposal, _or_ a statement of the specific issues 
being addressed, the intellectual approach, and the materials being 
studied. Neither the proposal nor statement should exceed 10 
double-spaced pages in length.

Application materials must reach Steven Collins at 
s-collins at uchicago.edu no later than January 1^st 2014. Workshop 
participants will be selected on the basis of the submitted projects, 
the potential for useful exchanges among them, and a concern to include 
a wide range of disciplinary perspectives, intellectual traditions, and 
regions. Applicants will be notified by February 1^st 2014. For further 
information about the workshop, or eligibility, please contact Prof. 
Collins at the above email address.







-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20130915/2a7fe6f9/attachment.htm>

