[INDOLOGY] query: 18 ;sre.nii jaatis
Dear all,
In an earlier off-list message to Patrick, I suggested that the h?najataya?
in question might have been part of the 'left-hand' communities in the far
South, sometimes reckoned as eighteen in number.  In the light of Ashok and
Madhav's interesting comments, I would like to revise that suggestion, and
instead propose that we might see here a reflex of another set of
South-Indian caste-communities referred to in Tamil as the ku?imakka?,
perhaps best rendered 'people of the village'.  The entry s.v. in the
Madras Tamil Lexicon reads (with my transliteration and bracketed
translations):
ku?imakka? , *n*. < id. +. 1. Sub-castes rendering service in a village,
being 18 in number, viz.,va???n? [washerman], n?vitan? [barber], kuyavan?
[potter], ta???n? [goldsmith], kan?n??n? [brazier], kar?r?accan? [mason],
kollan? [blacksmith], taccan? [carpenter], e??eyv??ikan? [oil merchant],
uppuv??ikan? [salt merchant], ilaiv??ikan? [betel merchant], pa??i
[watchman], p?m?laikk?ran? [garland maker], par?aiyan? [Dalit, pariah],
k?vilku?iy?n? [conch-blower], occan? [? another Dalit community], valaiyan?
[fisherman], p??an? [tailor].
Note that this list begins with washermen, just like Deva??abha??a's.  I
recall reading somewhere--though I may be misremembering--that there is
some suggestion that D. hailed from the Dravidian south, thus possibly
making this list a good potential set of parallels to the Sm?ticandrik?.
 Of course, sets of eighteen are very common, and the particular contents
of any such list liable to vary according to time, place, and
circumstances.
Best,
Whitney
On Sun, Oct 6, 2013 at 2:14 PM, Ashok Aklujkar <ashok.aklujkar at gmail.com>wrote:
