From d.keown at gold.ac.uk  Tue Jan  2 16:49:21 1996
From: d.keown at gold.ac.uk (d.keown at gold.ac.uk)
Date: Tue, 02 Jan 96 16:49:21 +0000
Subject: JBE Editorial Positions
Message-ID: <161227022242.23782.15450579791323205484.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

As the Journal of Buddhist Ethics begins the publication of Volume
3 (1996), the editors are pleased to report that the journal now
has around 725 subscribers in 37 countries. Many many more
individuals, who are not subscribers, regularly read the journal.
We are now receiving more than 25,000 visits to our World Wide Web
sites each year.

The journal expanded greatly in 1995, publishing 11 articles
spanning more than 200 pages of text, as well as a liberal
sprinkling of book reviews and informative bulletins. The staff of
the journal now includes four editors and eighteen editorial board
members. Additionally, the journal became one of the first Internet
resources to publish documents in Adobe Acrobat format, making it
possible for subscribers to read the document exactly as it was
prepared by the author. The journal also hosted its first online
conference in 1995, a highly successful venture focusing on
Buddhism and Human Rights that received more than 400 reader
comments during the two week duration of the conference.

Because of the gratifying response of our subscribers, the
overwhelming attention of scholars in the discipline of Buddhist
Studies, and the strong support of other individuals keenly
interested in Buddhist ethics, the editors are eagerly anticipating
expanding the journal much more aggressively in 1996.

The most immediate change is that the journal will include an
exciting and completely up to date series of book reviews covering
the whole discipline of Buddhist Studies. Precisely because our
electronic format allows us to reduce the time-lag between book
publication and book review, we are hoping to offer our readers the
most timely resource for book reviews ever presented in Buddhist
Studies.

Additionally, we have adopted a policy of sponsoring one online
conference per year. The topic for 1996 will be "Ethics in Western
Buddhism." By mid-year, we will be issuing a "Call for Papers" for
this event. We will continue utilizing the remarkable formatting
capabilities of Adobe Acrobat in publishing journal pages that
duplicate the appearance of hard-copy journals. And we expect to
provide an offprint service to our readers at extremely low cost.

In order to continue the operation of the journal at its high
standard of excellence, and to effect the changes described above,
the journal is hoping to expand its staff. As such, we are
announcing the job vacancies listed below. All editorial positions
on the Journal of Buddhist Ethics are unsalaried, providing an
appropriate credit citation on one's vitae and the immense
satisfaction of having served the profession in selfless but
meaningful fashion.


JOURNAL OF BUDDHIST ETHICS - JOB VACANCIES

ASSISTANT BOOK REVIEW EDITORS

Assistant Book Review Editors should be computer literate
volunteers who are interested in performing the following functions
for the journal:

1. To identify books in their area (South Asia, Southeast Asia,
East Asia, Central Asia/Tibet, the West) that merit reviewing.
These could be recently published works or other important works
that did not receive proper attention when first published.
2. To identify people who are interested in writing reviews for the
journal and establish a database with the names of these
interested, potential reviewers and their areas of expertise.
3. To facilitate getting books into the hands of the reviewers by
securing reviewers for particular volumes and arranging for
publishers to send review copies to these individuals.
4. To encourage the reviewer to get the review submitted in a
timely manner (i.e., within one month from the time the book is
received).

Individuals interested in serving as Assistant Book Review Editors
should contact Karen Lang (kcl at virginia.edu), the journal's Book
Review Editor directly.

COPY EDITOR

The Copy Editor will serve as a liaison between the authors of
accepted manuscripts and the General Editors. The Copy Editor will
work with authors in preparing their manuscripts according to the
format documented in the journal's Style Guide. The Copy Editor
will be a computer literate individual, possessing editorial skill,
with a background in Buddhist Studies and familiar with a variety
of word-processing formats. The Copy Editor will work with the
authors in preparing offprints for sale to journal readers. The
Copy Editor reports to the journal's General Editors. Those
interested in this position should contact Damien Keown
(d.keown at gold.ac.uk) or Charles Prebish (csp1 at psuvm.psu.edu).

DIRECTOR OF ONLINE CONFERENCES

The Director of Online Conferences will work with the General
Editors in determining the topic for each year's conference. He/She
will post the "Call for Papers" in all appropriate resources,
monitor the submissions, and will consult with the General Editors
regarding acceptance or rejection of submissions. The Director of
Online Conferences will work with the Copy Editor to format all
accepted papers for posting in the conference "page" on the
journal's World Wide Web site. He/She will work with the Listserv
Manager to monitor all responses for posting during the duration of
the online conference. He/She will work with authors of accepted
papers to prepare these papers for any hard-copy publication that
may follow the online conference. The Director of Online
Conferences reports to the journal's General Editors. Those
interested in this position should contact either Damien Keown
(d.keown at gold.ac.uk) or Charles Prebish (csp1 at psuvm.psu.edu).

WORLD WIDE WEB SITE DEVELOPER

The WWW Site Developer will be responsible for ensuring that the
journal's Web sites incorporate the latest features of WWW
technology. The developer will be fully conversant with HTML,
forms, CGI scripting, and image maps, and interested in
experimenting with new ways to keep the journal at the leading edge
of technical developments. Projects will include the development of
a search engine for the journal's current publications, a form for
online Listserv subscription, a Hypermail archive for online
conferences, and a statistics page showing site accesses and
downloads of individual articles. Some experience with Adobe
Acrobat would be an advantage. Those interested in this position
should contact the journal's Technical Editor Wayne Husted
(wrh7 at psu.edu).

LISTSERV MANAGER

The Listserv Manager will have day-to-day responsibility for
management of the journal's list JBE-L. At present the list is used
mainly for publication announcements, but it is hoped to extend the
use of this facility to include limited standing conferences on
selected issues using the TOPICS function. Subscribers will then be
offered a menu of "channels" to which they can subscribe depending
on their individual interests. The list is also used for the
journal's annual online conference which last year generated over
400 postings during the two weeks of the conference. For future
conferences, a "panels" structure will be adopted, which will be
the responsibility of the Listserv Manager to design and implement
in conjunction with the Director of Online Conferences. Those
interested in this position should contact the journal's Technical
Editor Wayne Husted (wrh7 at psu.edu).

ADVERTISING/MARKETING MANAGER

Although the journal is free, it has running costs and expenses.
The journal wishes to appoint an Advertising/Marketing Manager to
generate revenue to meet these costs and to fund improvement of
facilities and the overall quality of service to subscribers. The
duties of this individual will be to generate revenue through
sponsorship and advertising mainly via the journal's WWW sites.
He/she will be a creative, self-motivated person with initiative
and ideally some commercial experience in advertising or marketing,
although the latter is not essential. Those interested in this
position should contact either Damien Keown (d.keown at gold.ac.uk) or
Charles Prebish (csp1 at psuvm.psu.edu).

FINANCIAL DIRECTOR

The Financial Director will be responsible for the financial aspect
of the journal's activities. This includes recommending an
appropriate legal and financial framework for the journal's
activities, managing its bank account, preparing accounts, and
tracking and monitoring revenue and expenses. It is anticipated
that the Financial Director will be someone with commercial or
other relevant financial experience. Those interested in this
position should contact either Damien Keown (d.keown at gold.ac.uk) or
Charles Prebish (csp1 at psuvm.psu.edu).


 





