From aklujkar at unixg.ubc.ca  Fri Feb  2 23:06:44 1996
From: aklujkar at unixg.ubc.ca (aklujkar at unixg.ubc.ca)
Date: Fri, 02 Feb 96 15:06:44 -0800
Subject: Summer Skt, summer mythology
Message-ID: <161227022530.23782.9268981028063602798.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

Your assistance in giving publicity to the following information on
relevant lists other than INDOLOGY and Buddhist Academic Discussion Forum
<BUDDHA-L at ULKYVM.BITNET> will be appreciated.  

Summer, term 2 courses at the University of British Columbia: Sanskrit 102
(Introductory Sanskrit) and Asia 350 (Mythological Literature of South Asia
in Translation)

SANSKRIT 102:
A guaranteed Summer Sanskrit course (that is, a course not dependent on
attracting the enrolment that Summer school directors consider necessary to
make the course pay for itself) will be offered at the University of
British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada during the 6 weeks between 2 July and
10 August. 

The proposed fee (subject to Board of Governors approval) is Canadian $459
for Canadian citizens and permanent residents of Canada and 2.5 times this
amount for international students (C$1147.50 = approximately US $823 at
today's rate). 

For the benefit of those who do not know where Vancouver is or who think
that all of Canada is 'that extremely cold country to the north,  I may add
that Vancouver is situated in the province of British Columbia right on the
shore of the Pacific Ocean and is well known for its temperate climate as
well as year-round natural natural beauty. Between the beginning of June
and end of September it is especially a pleasant place to live. 

The official designation of the course is "Introductory Sanskrit" OR
"Sanskrit 102 (951)." [The last number is attached when the course is given
outside the regular Winter Session period.]  It will count for 6 credits at
the University of British Columbia. It will meet for three hours every
Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Friday from 9:A.M. to noon between 2 July -
10 August. 

Wednesdays have been left free for students to be able to review and
consolidate what they learn on the other days. Depending on student
interest and convenience, afternoon sessions for informal language practice
may also be arranged. 

Although the course is not officially designated as an intensive course,
prospective students should note that language courses by their very nature
demand a consistently high level of commitment, especially when the
material that is usually covered over two terms or semesters is taught in a
span of six weeks. 

The description of Sanskrit 102 is as follows: "The aim is to acquaint the
student with the most common vocabulary and the most important grammatical
features of Classical Sanskrit. Any student who completes the course should
be able to proceed to reading simple works in Classical and Epic Sanskrit.
Use of language cassettes is part of the instructional method. Students
interested in linguistics, Classics, medieval and modern Indian languages,
philosophies, religions and the history of ancient and medieval India will
especially benefit from this course. No prerequisite."

Instructor: Professor Ashok Aklujkar (that is, myself, the author of this
notice)

Textbook: Ashok Aklujkar's Sanskrit: an Easy Introduction to an Enchanting
Language (4 physical volumes including grammar, workbook, and reader, plus
5 ninety-minute cassettes). All available, inclusive of postage, for
C$70.00 for buyers in Canada and for US$70.00 for buyers elsewhere, from
Svadhyaya Publications, 5346 Opal Place, Richmond, B.C., Canada V7C 5B4. 
Tel. (country code 1, area code 604) 274-5353.  Students may purchase
copies of the text from the instructor after they arrive in Vancouver, but
those who intend to begin preparation ahead of the course commencement, may
wish to order copies earlier. 

For Summer Session calendar and application forms, write to the Registrar's
Office, Rm. 2016 - 1874 East Mall, Brock Hall, U.B.C., Vancouver, B.C.,
Canada V6T 1Z1. 

International students should apply for admission by 28 February.
Applications from others must be received by 15 April. 

The documentation deadline for international students is 15 April. For all
other students it is 15 June. Telereg will be open for registration on 15
March. 

Accommodation: Write to the Student Housing and Conferences Department,
U.B.C., 1874 East Mall, Brock Hall, Vancouver, B.C., Canada V^T 1Z1. Tel.
(1-604)-822-2811. 

Although the course is as certain as it can be at present, out-of-town
students should contact Asian Studies (tel.: 1-604-822-3881, fax:
1-604-822-8937, e-mail: astudies at unixg.ubc.ca) or Extra-Sessional Studies
(tel.: 1-604-822-2657) to check the up-to-date status before travelling to
Vancouver. 

-------------------------------

Asian Studies 350 (951), "Mythological Literature of South Asia in
Translation,  will be taught by Dr. Vidyut Aklujkar. The dates, days and
other particulars of  practical importance are the same as given above,
except that the course will meet in the afternoons and is subject to
enrollment. 






