wanted to do business in India. From these gradual loosenings of tariffs,
capital controls and other insulations flowed a degree of enterprise the
ordinary Indian would not have predicted. With its purchasing power, a
rising middle class, admittedly based almost wholly in the cities so far,
developed tastes for creature comforts and new luxuries ranging from color
TVs to cars, not to mention basic labor-saving devices. According to Judith
Brown, professor of Commonwealth history at Oxford and an author of many
books on India, washing machines have been a hot ticket. She adds, "And the
latest craze is gardens--garden centers are blossoming. As people have more
disposable income, the first thing they do is improve their houses."
 
Brown also notes the signal reorientation of Indians' sights overseas. "The
more India is opened up to the West, the more the influence is
American--through the media and because of the large number of Indians who
live in the U.S. Today America is the preferred destination of nonresident
Indians, rather than Britain." Lately, in a country that lost some of its
finest brainpower to such Western enterprises as the U.S. space program, the
homegrown technopolis centered in Banglalore in southern India has its
cutting-edge developments in aerospace and software.
 
The fact that Rao's regime has helped accomplish all this under a democratic
system has made such rewards all the sweeter. In Nehru's day, Indians could
always comfort themselves in their poverty by noting the considerable lead
that the West enjoyed in economic development. The rationale became
increasingly hard to sustain over the past 20 years as Asians to the east,
from Singapore to South Korea, surpassed India by giant strides in
prosperity. Even the post-Marcos Philippines, which had lagged behind the
Little Dragons for quite a while, was percolating with growth. A source of
pride for India nowadays is that, unlike China, it is starting to join this
major league of Asian go-getters with a fully functioning system of
political liberties.
 
The system is messy and inefficient, to be sure, and economic liberalization
is not everyone's cup of Darjeeling. With every instance of social
dislocation or threat of competition to domestic market monopolies comes a
hail of attacks from the right and left. The Rao government's decision to
sign the Uruguay Round of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, which
set up the new World Trade Organization, was billed by oppositionists as a
shocking sacrifice of sovereignty--no less than presidential hopeful Pat
Buchanan has demonized the wto in America. The truth is that more open trade
is far likelier to disrupt normal life in India than it ever could in the
U.S. for the simple reason that it represents such a drastic departure.
 
Karl Marx once did a study of Indian history and wondered why the
civilization seemed to persist in such basically changeless form under a
succession of conquerors. He concluded that village life was the staple. The
better answer, though, would have been the caste system, a complex weave of
inherited jobs and privileges that crossed all political lines of the
moment. For millenniums, the horizontally linked castes, or rather
subcastes, continued to keep alive the idea of India as a unified culture.
What this distinctive social fabric also achieved, however, was the
prevention of upward social mobility. As the 20th century draws to a close,
the arrival of unaccustomed economic opportunities is starting to unravel
the institution. Paul Kreisberg, a senior fellow at Washington's Woodrow
Wilson Center, remarks simply, "Traditional ways of doing things are under
more intense pressure for change than has ever taken place in India."
 
Small wonder that politicians from communists to Hindu chauvinists believe
they can harness anxieties. At a time when the nation has solid grounds for
optimism, an accompanying strain on politics as usual is also extending to
the everyday business conducted by the bureaucratic raj. A resurgence in the
past decade of Hindu-Muslim communal violence, illustrated most vividly in
Bombay's street mayhem and the destruction of a mosque in Ayodhya in 1992,
has cast a shadow over the civil service's old sense of mission in governing
all India for the good of all India. Even as the economy decentralizes,
political power is gravitating toward state governments, which in Indira
Gandhi's time were virtual Congress vassals. Editor Gupta notes that the
Hindi-speaking belt, which stretches along the Gangetic plain in the north,
is losing its old status as the nation's political-cultural heartland. "It
is likely that much of the fresh investment will be cornered by the more
enterprising states such as Maharashtra and Gujurat in the west and
Karnataka and Tamil Nadu in the south," he says.
 
This evolution, which Gupta describes as "haphazard" rather than free, might
be enough to give pause to any reformer, although Manmohan Singh still
professes the view that measured doses of liberalization are the answer.
Heaven knows, the measures to date have barely scratched the
state-controlled sector, a vast corporate machine that turns out
wristwatches and jet planes, generates power and runs hotels. Robert
Bradnock, a South Asia specialist at London's School of Oriental and African
Studies, wonders whether all too much is being made of the reform campaign's
accomplishments so far. Although the re-entry of Coca-Cola and Kentucky
Fried Chicken's pathmaking into India have been politically charged,
Bradnock predicts that "the next steps will be more difficult"--electricity,
road building and the like. Backsliding seems a definite risk, but Bradnock
in any case thinks a period of consolidation is in store.
 
Adjusting course seems to be an equally safe bet for the political-party
system. Corruption is merely one symptom of an order of allegiances that has
outgrown its usefulness. However the Congress electrified the country during
the independence movement, its postcolonial effort to be all things to all
Indians has plainly come a cropper. The great banyan of patronage and
favoritism fostered under prolonged rule by a single party can no longer
serve a people testing their individual confidence on the world stage. The
outward and visible signs of democracy that Indians have cherished for 50
years--the vote, a constitutional government--were not matched during those
decades by the kind of democratic civil society from which European
liberalism emerged. When the small farmer and machine-tool maker acquire
financial independence, their votes will seek out choices greater than those
that shopworn ideologies can offer.
 
The land that Burke's preachments sought to help rescue still harbors much
of the world's most desperately poor--a plight that a half-century's worth
of self-sufficiency has only marginally relieved. The dreampolitik of the
Mahatma's spinning wheel and Pandit Nehru's socialism is only just starting
to adjust to the realities of the globe beyond those mountains and seas.
Indians who have sought their personal fortunes on those farther shores have
lighted the way for a homeland ready to catch up with dynamic East Asia.
India will not quickly cast off the dead hand of the past, in the form of
antagonisms with Pakistan or a foreign policy that still sees "nonalignment"
as a fresh idea. But Indians are too talented, too various and irrepressible
to remain aloof from influences they have welcomed through the ages.
Throughout it all, and despite today's age of high anxiety, India will
remain somehow thoroughly itself.
 
--Reported by Helen Gibson/London and William Stewart and Dick Thompson/New
Delhi





