From aklujkar at unixg.ubc.ca  Fri May  3 22:00:47 1996
From: aklujkar at unixg.ubc.ca (aklujkar at unixg.ubc.ca)
Date: Fri, 03 May 96 15:00:47 -0700
Subject: kaarikaa, aagama
Message-ID: <161227024232.23782.8295061374838312234.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

        I began the following message on 26 April as a response to J.
Silk's question and wrote about three paragraphs. But I  can complete the
response only now. You see,the end of April is the deadline for filing
income tax returns in Canada, and, as a Sanskitist, I have so many sources
of income that I get exhuasted  just keeping track of  my team of
accountants.

        The delay has bestowed on me the advantage that I can take into
account even the more recent postings by S. Vidyasankar, S. Lindquist, D.
Lusthaus and B. Kellner. 

        Silk asks an important question:
>Do you mean to suggest that aagama appears, for eaxmple, in a Sa.mkhya
text, it might refer to Buddhist Aagamas?  Is there any evidence for this? 
It seems to me l highly unlikely, if for no other reason than that for
non-Buddhists Buddhist texts should *not* be any type of aagama.  Is it not
correct that generally (and perhaps there are exceptions) for Vedic /
Brahmanical / Hindu writers, Buddhist texts -- rejecting as they do the
authority of the Veda -- cannot themselves be any sort of authority?<

        Silk's second question  is implicit in Vidyasankar's following
lines:
>...  on "Agama-SAstra" - I interpreted Prof. Aklujkar's comments in 
a general sense. Thus, the "canonical" set of works of the Brahminical 
tradition would collectively be called Agama, of which the GK intends to
give the purport. Of course, the Brahmin schools would have excluded any
Buddhist texts from this canon. As far as the Buddhist traditions are 
concerned, by the time of the GK, the various sUtras and/or the Pali
works had already attained the status of "canon", and could be labelled 
Agama with some justification. The Brahmins's canon is "Agama" for the 
Brahmin, and the Buddhist's canon is "Agama" for the Buddhist. I didnt
think a cross-application of the two was intended in Prof. Aklujkar's
remarks.<

        The short answer to Silk's question is that "there are exceptions."


        To expand: 
         1. The word aagama in itself has a range of meanings as I have
incidentally and briefly pointed out in an article in Indo-Iranian Journal
13.3 (1971):169-70. A study of the context is necessary in most cases to
determine the meaning likely to have been intended by an author. 
        2. A puurva-pak.sin (in an uttara-pak.sin's statement of his views
as is invariably the situation in Skt texts)  referring to his
authoritative sources as aagma and an uttara-pak.sin doing the same with
respect to his authoritative sources are not at issue here. This is what we
would expect them to do as Vidyasankar's remarks suggest.  All we have to
do is to remember that even these uses would not be immune to the
consideration pointed out in (1). 
        3. The real issue then is: Did we have thinkers in India whose
notion of what constituted an aagama for them was composite or could
conceivably be composite? Were there philosophers, in particular, who
crossed or came close to crossing the Brahmanical and Buddhist divide of
authoritative sources? The remarks by Silk and Vidyasankar assume that
there were no such thinkers. The prevailing assumption in Indology is the
same. What I have been pointing out during the last six years or so in my
lectures and paper presentations is that this assumption is not justified.
Things are not as rigid and unqualified as they have been taken to be.
While I cannot point to a Brahmanical thinker who explicitly says that
Buddhist or Jaina aagamas are acceptable as authorities to him, I can point
to Brahmanical thinkers who came close to crossing the Brahmanical and
Buddhist divide and indicated that they were doing so. 

        (A justified reconstruction of India's past, it seems to me, is one
in which a spectrum of thinkers with differing degrees of inclusivism and
exclusivism is admitted. The present paradigm or model does not do justice
either to the totality of historical evidence that is available nor to the
nature of (what we would call) religious life as it was lived in India.
However, to argue this point, I would need several dozen pages, which this
forum cannot, rightly, make available. Hence I will draw attention only to
some of my writings in which I have already begun to offer the necessary
evidence, albeit in the context of some other larger issues: In  press:
"The Early History of Sanskrit as Supreme Language" which is to appear in
the Proceedings of the Status and Ideology of Sanskrit volume being edited
by Dr. Jan E.M. Houben. Shortly to be sent for publication (I hope):  "The
semantic history of 'Vedaanta' and the paradigm for the study of Indian
philosophy.   and *Sociolinguistic History of Ancient and Early Medieval
India: Need for a Paradigm Change,* which is a monograph-length critique
primarily of the views of my learned friend Professor Madhav M. Deshpande.)

        For example, there were Brahmanical authors who thought of Buddhist
aagama(s) as ultimately having their origin in the Vedas, especially in the
artha-vaadas of the Vedas. See Aklujkar 1991 = "Bhart.r-hari s concept of
the Veda." In Panels of the VIIth World Sanskrit   Conference. Vol. IV-V.
Ed. Bronkhorst, Johannes. Pp. 1-18. Leiden: E.J. Brill. Pp. :1-2 and the
notes going with them are especially relevant.  
