Query on translation of "anushAsana-parvan"
On Tue, 12 Nov 1996, Luis Gonzalez-Reimann wrote:
It is the other way around.  The Ganguli/Roy translation began publication
in 1884 (according to Winternitz, 1972 Oriental Books Reprint of his
History of Indian Literature, vol. 1, p. 327, nt. 1) and is a serious and
scholarly translation, though far from perfect.  M. N. Dutt's rendition
began to appear in 1895, and it is hard to avoid the impression that it is
anything but a slight rewording, verse after verse after verse, of
Ganguli's efforts.  Ganguli's notes discuss some difficult passages and
readings and quarrel with NiilakaNTha and the Burdwan translators, though
often he silently resolves difficulties by simply following NiilakaNTha. I
have never found the slightest glimmer of a difference in the
interpretation of a difficult pada between Dutt's rendering and Ganguli's. 
Dutt often uses slightly different words, but I have never seen an
instance where he offers a different understanding.  Of course I stopped
consulting Dutt's rendition long ago; perhaps there is more value in it
than I saw. 
Some of the older editions, and some reprints, of the Ganguli/Roy
translation do contain verse numbers and Ganguli's notes.  The "third
improved edition:  January, 1975" of Munshiram Manorharlal's vol. VIII,
contains notes.  I can't remember which editions contained the sloka
numbers.
Jim Fitzgerald, University of Tennessee
