From aklujkar at unixg.ubc.ca  Fri Nov 29 00:45:09 1996
From: aklujkar at unixg.ubc.ca (aklujkar at unixg.ubc.ca)
Date: Thu, 28 Nov 96 16:45:09 -0800
Subject: Summer Skt, summer mythology
Message-ID: <161227027120.23782.9558840783803192121.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

        As in Summer 1996, a guaranteed Summer Sanskrit course -- that is,
a course not dependent on attracting the enrolment that Summer school
directors consider necessary to make the course pay for itself -- will be
offered at the University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada during the
6 weeks between 7 July and 15 August , 1997 (the course final examination
will take place on Saturday,16 August, morning).

        International students should apply to UBC for admission by 28
February 1997.  The documentation in support of their application should be
received by 15 April 1997.
       Applications from others should be received by 15 April. The
documentation deadline for them is 15 June.
        Those students who are already registered at other universities
should send their applications to the attention of  Associate Registrar,
Admissions, Registrar's Office, University of B.C., Vancouver, B.C., Canada
V6T 1Z1 , with the clarification "applying in the Visitor category" written
prominently on the application and the envelope. The documentation in their
case includes a letter of permission from the home university to take a
specific course, an official transcript and a filled-out application form.
        Students coming out of highschools etc. and joining the university
for the first time may need to meet different admission requirements and
submit a different kind of documentation.
        For Summer Session calendar and application forms, write to the
Registrar's Office, Rm. 2016 - 1874 East Mall, Brock Hall, U.B.C.,
Vancouver, B.C., Canada V6T 1Z1.

        The fee for the course (subject to Board of Governors approval)
will approximately be Canadian $459 for Canadian citizens and permanent
residents of Canada and 2.5 times this amount for international students
(C$1147.50 = approximately US $825.00).

        The official designation of the course is "Introductory Sanskrit"
OR "Sanskrit 102 (951)." [The last number is attached when the course is
given outside the regular Winter Session period.]  It will count for 6
credits at the University of British Columbia. It will meet for three hours
every Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Friday from 9:A.M. to noon between 7
July - 15 August.
        Wednesdays have been left free for students to be able to review
and consolidate what they learn on the other days.
        Depending on student interest and instructor convenience, afternoon
sessions for informal language practice may also be arranged.
        The description of Sanskrit 102 is as follows: "The aim is to
acquaint the student with the most common vocabulary and the most important
grammatical features of Classical Sanskrit. Any student who completes the
course should be able to proceed to reading simple works in Classical and
Epic Sanskrit. Use of language cassettes is part of the instructional
method. Students interested in linguistics, Classics, medieval and modern
Indian languages, philosophies, religions and the history of ancient and
medieval India will especially benefit from this course. No prerequisite."
        Instructor: Professor Ashok Aklujkar (that is, myself, the author
of this notice)
        Textbook: Ashok Aklujkar's Sanskrit: an Easy Introduction to an
Enchanting Language (4 physical volumes including grammar, workbook, and
reader, plus 5 ninety-minute cassettes). All available, inclusive of
postage, for C$70.00 for buyers in Canada and for US$70.00 for buyers
elsewhere, from Svadhyaya Publications, 5346 Opal Place, Richmond, B.C.,
Canada V7C 5B4.  Tel. (country code 1, area code 604) 274-5353.  Students
may purchase copies of the text from the instructor after they arrive in
Vancouver, but those who intend to begin preparation ahead of the course
commencement, may wish to order copies earlier.

        For the benefit of those who do not know where Vancouver is or who
think that all of Canada is 'that extremely cold country to the north,? I
may add that Vancouver is situated in the province of British Columbia
right on the shore of the Pacific Ocean and is well known for its temperate
climate as well as year-round natural beauty. Between the beginning of June
and end of September it is especially a pleasant place to live.
        Telereg will be open for registration on 13 March.
        Although the course is as certain as it can be at present,
out-of-town students should contact Asian Studies (tel.: 1-604-822-3881,
fax: 1-604-822-8937, e-mail: astudies at unixg.ubc.ca) or Extra-Sessional
Studies (tel.: 1-604-822-2657) to check the up-to-date status before
travelling to Vancouver.
         Accommodation: Write to the Student Housing and Conferences
Department, U.B.C., 1874 East Mall, Brock Hall, Vancouver, B.C., Canada V^T
1Z1. Tel. (1-604)-822-2811.
-------------------------------

        ASIAN STUDIES 350 (951), "Mythological Literature of South Asia in
Translation,? will be taught by Dr. Vidyut Aklujkar. The dates, days,
meeting times, and other particulars of  practical importance are the same
as given above.

------------------------------
        A copy of the student evaluations of either course may be requested
by writing to Secretary, Dept. of Asian Studies, University of B.C.,
Vancouver, B.C., Canda V6T 1Z2: "Please send me the course evaluation for
Sanskrit 102 (951, Summer 1996) / Asia 350 (951, Summer 1996).? The same
message may be given on telephone 604-822-3881 or <astudies at unixg.ubc.ca>.

        Your assistance in giving publicity to the above information on
relevant lists other than INDOLOGY and Buddhist Academic Discussion Forum
<BUDDHA-L at ULKYVM.BITNET> will be appreciated.

        Please note that I will be away from the following address, 1
December 1996 - 12 January 1997.
        Ashok Aklujkar, Professor, Department of Asian Studies, University
of B.C.,
Vancouver, B.C., Canada V6T 1Z2. Tel: O: (604) 822-5185, R: (604) 274-5353.
Fax O:
822-8937. E-mail: aklujkar at unixg.ubc.ca.







