From conlon at u.washington.edu  Sat Nov  9 22:27:49 1996
From: conlon at u.washington.edu (Frank Conlon)
Date: Sat, 09 Nov 96 14:27:49 -0800
Subject: H-ASIA: Kenneth W. Jones 1934-1996
Message-ID: <161227026770.23782.7324236965456869266.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

Colleagues:

I regret any inconvenience by cross-posting to Indology for those members
who also subscribe to H-ASIA.  The following obituary was posted today.

Frank Conlon

Date: Sat, 9 Nov 1996 13:48:18 -0800
From: Frank Conlon <conlon at U.WASHINGTON.EDU>
To: Multiple recipients of list H-ASIA <H-ASIA at h-net.msu.edu>
Subject: H-ASIA: Kenneth W. Jones 1934-1996

                             H-ASIA
                       November 9, 1996

Kenneth W. Jones  December 21, 1934 - September 22, 1996
*****************************************************************

As reported earlier on H-ASIA, Professor Kenneth W. Jones died in
Manhattan, Kansas on September 22, 1996 after an intense struggle
with cancer.  A memorial service was held on Sunday, September 29
in Manhattan.

Ken Jones  was one of the pillars of South Asian history in North
America.  He pioneered critical and in-depth studies of religious
movements in  colonial India,  particularly in  the region of the
Punjab.   He achieved international recognition for his scholarly
studies of  the Arya  Samaj, and, prior to his final illness, had
been working on a study of the Hindu Sanatana Dharma movement.

After attending  Stockton College  for two years, Ken entered the
University  of  California  at  Berkeley,  where  he  earned  his
baccalaureate degree in 1958, his M.A. in 1959, and completed his
Ph.D, under the supervision of Thomas Metcalf in 1966.  Ken Jones
joined the  faculty of Kansas State University in 1965 and served
there with  distinction throughout  his career.  Indeed, in 1989,
his long  record of  contributions as  a scholar and teacher were
recognized when  he was  appointed as  a University Distinguished
Professor.   Among his other awards were grants from the American
Council of  Learned Societies,  the American  Institute of Indian
Studies (for  which in  1975-76 he  was honored  as the W. Norman
Brown Fellow) and the National Endowment for the Humanities.

At Kansas  State, Ken  introduced many  students to  South  Asia,
through  his   survey  courses   on  Indian  history  and  Indian
civilization, his  seminars on Indian nationalism and Gandhi, his
his course  on the  History of  Hinduism.  While he was an active
participant in the Kansas State South Asia Center, he also took a
leading role in teacher training, offering an advanced seminar on
Teaching of  History in  the Secondary  Schools.  His concern for
the quality  of secondary  education was furthered as director of
an NEH  project "The Introduction of South Asian Studies into the
Elementary and  Secondary Schools  in Kansas,  Colorado, Oklahoma
and Nebraska" in 1974-75.

Ken's scholarly  contributions  may  be  glimpsed  in  the  short
bibliography of  his works  which follows.   The  impact of those
works may  be underscored  by the number of republished/reprinted
editions, particularly  in  the  subcontinent  itself.    Perhaps
beginning with  his studies  under Wolfram  Eberhard at Berkeley,
Ken consciously  explored the  historical evolution  of religious
institutions and  associations in  colonial India.   His study on
the Arya  Samaj was  widely cited  and acclaimed,  leading to his
invitation to  write a  volume in  the New  Cambridge History  of
India in  which he  proposed  to  offer  a  survey  of  religious
movements throughout  British India.   That  he had, by editorial
decision, to  also accommodate social movements within the limits
of allocated  pages, meant  that the  final work  was broader  is
coverage, but  at the  expense of  further analysis  of religious
organizations.  It was his great pleasure to turn back to a study
of the self-styled orthodox "Sanatana dharma" movement of Punjabi
Hindus, a  work still  in progress  at  the  time  of  his  final
illness.

To scholars  active in  the Association  for Asian  Studies,  the
American Academy  of Religion,  the American  Institute of Indian
Studies and  the South Asia Microform Project, Ken was a reliable
and positive  contributor of  ideas and of service, both formally
and informally.   He was  one of the founders,  and  participants
in, the the first of the regional studies organizations  in North
America, the Research Committee on the Punjab.

Ken Jones will be  remembered--and cited--for his  many scholarly
contributions to the study of religious identity and politics  of
India.  For those who knew him,  as colleagues   and students, he
will also be fondly remembered for his penetrating  mind and  his
hall-mark manner which presented an appearance of a sort of quiet
exasperation at those who would obfuscate, combined  with laconic
discourse, dry wit and, always, affirmative engagement with ideas.
We will  long feel our loss for what  Ken Jones contributed  as a
scholar, and even more for what he represented as a human being.

Ken is  survived by  his wife Marguerite and his son Garth, and a
legion of  admiring friends around the world.  A memorial fund is
being established  at the Department of History, Eisenhower Hall,
Kansas State  University, Manhattan,  Kansas 66506,  to  endow  a
prize fund for modern Indian history.

Frank F. Conlon
University of Washington
Co-editor of H-ASIA

                Publications by Kenneth W. Jones

Ed. note:  I wish to thank Peter Knupfer of Kansas State University
for supplying much of the information that appears below.  I apologize
for the absence of pagination details on a few of the entries.

Ken Jones had also written many book reviews, and I believe, had
submitted some essays for a forthcoming Encylopedia of Sikhism.
                                                        F.F.C.

1995    "The Arya Samaj in British India, 1875-1947" [revised ed.], in
          Robert D. Baird, ed., _Religion in Modern India_.  3rd ed.
          New Delhi: Manohar Publishers.

1995    "Politicized Hinduism: The Ideology and Program of the Hindu
          Mahasabha," [revised ed.] in Robert D. Baird, ed., _Religion in
          Modern India_.  3rd ed. New Delhi: Manohar Publishers.

1992    _Religious Controversy in British India: Dialogues in
          South Asian Languages_  Kenneth W. Jones, Editor.
          Albany: SUNY Press.

1991    "Hindu Leaders in British India: The Negative Component of
          Communal Consciousness" _Indo-British Review_  19 i:
          57-72.

1989      _Socio-Religious Reform Movements in British India:
          Vol. III, Book 1 of New Cambridge History of India_
          Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.

1988    "Socio-Religious Movements and Changing Gender Relationships
          Among Hindus of British India," in James W. Bjorkman, ed.
          _Fundamentalism, Revivalists and Violence in South Asia_
          Riverdale, MD: The Riverdale Company.

1986    Five short articles in the _Encyclopedia of Asian History_, gen.
          ed., A. T. Embree.  New York: Charles Scribner and Sons for
          the Asia Society.

1986    "Organized Hinduism in Delhi and New Delhi," in Robert E.
          Frykenberg, ed., _Delhi Through the Ages: A festschrift in
          honour of T. G. Percival Spear_.  Delhi: Oxford University
          Press.

1984    "Identity, Ideology and the Arya Samaj," in Peter Gaeffke
          and David Utz, eds., _Identity and Division in Cults and
          Sects in South Asia_ [Volume 1, _Proceedings of the South
          Asia Seminar, 1980-81_].  Philadelphia: Department of South
          Asian Regional Studies, University of Pennsylvania.

1981    "Religious Identity and the Indian Census," pp. 73-101 in N. G.
          Barrier, ed., _The Census of British India: New Perspectives_.
          New Delhi: Manohar Publications.

1981    "The Arya Samaj in British India, 1875-1947" pp. 27-54 in Robert
          D. Baird, ed., _Religion in Modern India_.  New Delhi: Manohar
          Publications.

1981    "Politicized Hinduism: The Ideology and Program of the Hindu
          Mahasabha," pp. 447-480 in Robert D. Baird, ed., _Religion in
          Modern India_.  New Delhi: Manohar Publications.

1979    "Social Change and Religious Movements in 19th-Century Punjab,"
          pp. 1-16 in M. S. A. Rao, ed., _Social Movements in India_,
          Vol. 2.  New Delhi: Manohar Publications.

1976    _Arya Dharm: Hindu Consciousness in 19th-Century Punjab_.
          Berkeley: University of California Press.

1975    _Sources on Punjab History_.  W. Eric Gustafson and Kenneth
          W. Jones , eds.  New Delhi: Manohar Book Service.

1975    "Resources for Punjab Studies: A Preliminary Investigation,"
          pp. 81-95 in Maureen L. P. Patterson and Martin Yanuck, eds.,
          _South Asian Library Resources in North America_  Zug,
          Switzerland: Inter-Documentation.

1973    "Ham Hindu Nahin: Arya-Sikh Relations, 1877-1905," _Journal of
          Asian Studies 33 (May) 457-475.

        Reprinted in _The Spokesman Weekly_ "Guru Nanak Number" (1973)
          pp. 27-33.

        Reprinted in _Punjab Past and Present_ 11 (Ocotber, 1977)
          pp. 330-355.

        Translated into Punjabi and reprinted in Khan Singh Nabha,
          _Ham Hindu Nahin_  2nd ed. (Amritsar: Kendri Sri Guru Singh
          Sabha, 1978)


1969    "Sources of Arya Samaj History: An Exploratory Essay," _Indian
          Archives_ 18 i (January-June): 1-17.

        Reprinted in  Gustafson and Jones, _Sources on Punjab History_
          [see above, 1975] 130-164.

1968    "Commnalism in the Punjab: The Arya Samaj Contribution,"
          _Journal of Asian Studies_ 27 i (November) 39-54.

        Reprinted in Thomas R. Metcalf, ed., _India: An Interpretive
          Anthology_ (New York: Macmillan, 1971) 206-220.

1966    "The Bengali Elite in Post-Annexation Punjab: An Example of
          Inter-Regional Influence in 19th-Century Punjab," _Indian
          Economic and Social History Review_ 3 (December) 376-395.

        Reprinted in David Kopf, ed., _Bengal Regional Identity_ (East
          Lansing, Michigan State University, 1969) 133-150.

===========================================================================






