whose 1984 book <From Lineage to State> remains the best synthetic study
of the first millennium I've seen.

It was also the first study to join the two subjects in a powerful and
effective way.  Thapar didn't just apply the theories to her context; she
also solved, to my mind quite effectively, theoretical problems that had
remained open in the transition she titled her book after.  Although her
focus is primarily that of a historian, she is also the best-informed
historian now working in India as far as archaeology is concerned.  For an
elementary discussion of ancient India, the standard recommendation of A.
L. Basham's <The Wonder That Was India> probably sounds goofy, but is in
fact essentially sound (I believe there's an early 1980s revision); but
anyone who has enough Sanskrit terms to read it will benefit greatly from
Thapar's analysis.

In her wake, lots of other works appeared.  I've previously referred to
those I'd seen in my 1986-87 research.  It turns out others were being
published at the  same time, notably (going by later citations; I still
haven't seen these):

Lal, Makkhan.  1987.  "The stages of human colonisation in the
Ganga-Yamuna Doab: archaeological evidence."  South Asian Studies.  3:
25-32.

Erdosy, George.  1987.  "Early historic cities of Northern India."  South
Asian Studies.  3: 1-23.

idem.  1989.  "Ethnicity in the Rigveda and its bearing on the question of
Indo- European origins."  South Asian Studies.  5: 35-47.

Additional references, that I have seen, include:

Chakrabarti, Dilip K.  1988.  Theoretical Issues in Indian Archaeology. 
New Delhi: Munshiram Manoharlal.

This has separate chapters on diffusion; literature and archaeology;
geography; cultural evolution; agriculture; metallurgy; and trade.  I
expect to find it of great value; see below for much more on Chakrabarti.

R. K. Varma.  1989.  "Pre-Agricultural Mesolithic Society of the Ganga
Valley." Old Problems and New Perspectives in the Archaeology of South
Asia, edited by J.M.Kenoyer, Wisconsin Archaeological Reports Vol 2, 1989.

This is most recent paper I was familiar with on early settlement of the
Ganga (having heard the paper given in 1986).  At the same conference and
in the same volume, by the way, the paper I've remembered or misremembered
as showing that rice caused the fall of Harappa:

Richard Meadow.  1989.  "Continuity and Change in the Agriculture of the
Greater Indus Valley."  Ibid.

Anyway.  What seems clear from the books I *have* looked at is that the
second millennium BC, the crucial period whose chronology, ethnic
movements, settlement hierarchies, and who-knows-what-else will be
decisive in the judgement as to whether Gangetic urbanism is in fact
"pristine" - that millennium remains not only too little researched and
still less published, but that little is itself not adequately synthesised
in anything more recent than the Allchins' 1982 book, it appears.  (That
book is, however, a fine guide.)

In particular, the <Encyclopaedia of Indian Archaeology> edited by A.
Ghosh, which I've previously mentioned, is good but not nearly enough.  It
proves  to be current only to the late 1970s though published in 1989, and
its organisation makes it difficult to pull together views of periods or
regions as pottery-typed cultures are privileged.

There is a solution, though.  It involves the recent book on Gangetic
urbanism you probably *haven't* heard of:  Dilip Chakrabarti's
<Archaeology of Ancient Indian Cities>.

------------------------------

Subject:  4.  The Archaeology of Ancient Indian Cities

A cursory review.

This is an example of why I wish there were a real South Asian
archaeologist on the nets.  I'm by no means equipped to give this book a
full review with appropriate scholarly approvals, but I'm about as
qualified as anyone available to explain why all the libraries out there
that've bought the other book I'm reviewing really should buy this one
too.  Sigh...

As it is, while a variety of local libraries here in Chicago have
Allchin's new book (reviewed below), this one turned up only on a
shelf-reading at Loyola.  Not Northwestern!

It's unfortunate, because while I'd have to give the Allchin book a slight
edge for the most cash-strapped library, Chakrabarti's is much better for
some purposes, and the two complement each other well.

Chakrabarti, Dilip K.  1995.  The Archaeology of Ancient Indian Cities. 
Delhi (and Bombay, Calcutta, Madras):  Oxford.  ISBN 0 19 563472 1.

This book was written 1992-93, on the basis (usually not readily detected)
of a  1972-73 dissertation at the University of Calcutta.  Chakrabarti
went on from that dissertation to become a foremost opponent of
diffusionist arguments in South Asian archaeology (his explanations for
the native origin of iron are the standard ones still), based usually on
exacting knowledge of specific technologies, geographies, or whatever else
was germane.  Here he comes full circle.

Its contents:

I.   Introduction

This is a ten-page review of theoretical issues, in which Chakrabarti
contrasts Gordon Childe with Adams, discusses a synthesis of sorts which
he found in Renfrew (though it derives from the work of Kent Flannery, I
gather), and finally says that although he intends to keep these
considerations in mind, his paramount definition for an urban setting is
literacy.

II.  Background and Origin of the Indus Civilization

Thirty-five pages of what Chakrabarti does over and over in this book,
namely an exhaustive review of available evidence with copious references,
are followed by a few pages in which he offers his own views on
causation.  This is the chapter I read most closely, and the best place
for me to indicate one reason I'm biased in Chakrabarti's favour: he
writes clear, vigorous English, and calls a spade a spade.  He is
trenchant in condemning careless work or thought, and clear in his praise
for those who merit it.  He makes his own biases plain - it's clear that
he has no patience with the idea of Mesopotamian trade as a causative
factor in Harappan urbanism - and I'm not going to say he's right every
time.  But he quotes generously from those he disputes, and summarises
their results concisely but fully.
   Bibliography in South Asian archaeology is a work of suffering, in my
experience. What Chakrabarti does in this chapter, and throughout the
book, is gather all the  references together, and summarise them.  I know
of no other book which provides such full access to the archaeological
literature of early South Asian urbanism between two covers, and it's
complete with a (usually fair) critique.
   It remains to get through the rest of the table of contents, and back
this up...

III. Harappan Settlements

This time, it's 53 pages of evidence and 18 of conclusions.  The evidence
is surveyed by region, with the major sites described at length and
surface surveys and the like duly noted:  North Afghanistan and
Baluchistan; Sind; Cholistan; Western Panjab; Rajasthan, Haryana, East
Panjab and U.P.; Kutch, Kathiawar and Mainland Gujarat. The conclusions
discuss site distribution and size; chronology; planning; and the "social
framework" (briefly!).

IV.  Prelude to Early Historic Urban Growth

The first dozen pages discuss the decline of Harappa; I am embarrassed to
have to admit that I've forgotten his proposal, but again he begins with a
review of the evidence. Next follow 23 pages on the non-Harappan neolithic
and chalcolithic cultures of the rest of the subcontinent.  Interestingly,
in the conclusion which follows,  while he generally disdains trade as a
cause, here he attributes the flowering of these cultures throughout this
region around 2000 BC to trade with Harappa.

V.   Early Historical Cities

And here they all are...  I did notice one glaring omission. 
Atranjikhera, whose excavation report I've previously referenced, gets
only one paragraph.  This is an absurdity, given that that site is the
most extensively published and one of the most extensively excavated since
World War II in north India; I can only think the author took for granted
that his readers would already have a copy of the report.
   Otherwise, I could only think "Had this only existed when I
started..."  This time the review of the evidence is 72 pages, ranging
from the Northwest Frontier to Tamil Nadu and Assam, followed by a
discussion of the  growth of urban civilisation, of town size and planning
(including textual discussion, unlike the rest of the book), and of the
character of the cities.

VI.  Problems and Perspectives

A summary, focused particularly on the shortcomings of Indian archaeology
(a standard jeremiad) and also on causes of Gangetic urbanism.

This book didn't exist when I did my research.  It does now.  I recommend
it very strongly.

end part 1

Joe Bernstein
-- 
Joe Bernstein, writer, banker, bookseller joe at sfbooks.com
speaking for myself alone http://www.tezcat.com/~josephb/
But...co-proponent for soc.history.ancient, now back under
discussion in news.groups!





