*/The Three Early Tiruvant?tis of the Tivyappirapantam./*Annotated 
Translation and Glossary by Eva Wilden with the collaboration of Marcus 
Schm?cker, Collection Indologie n? 143 ; NETamil Series n? 7, Ecole 
fran?aise d?Extr?me-Orient / Institut Fran?ais de Pondich?ry, 2020, 
xiii, 556 p.
Language: Tamil, English. Rs 900 (38 EUR). ISBN: 978-2-85539-238-7 
(EFEO) / 978-81-8470-234-7 (IFP).*//*
*About the book*
The early /Ant?tis/ of the three ??v?rs known as Poykaiy??v?r, 
P?tatt??v?r and P?y??v?r form the earliest layer in the /N?l?yira 
Tivyappirapantam/ (?Four-thousand Heavenly Compositions?), the 
devotional corpus of the ?r?vai??avas, a religious group of devotees of 
the god Vi??u active to this day in Tamilnadu and beyond. Still in the 
earlier metre Ve?p? and thus part of the /Iya?p?/, the portion of the 
canon to be recited and not sung, they stand at the transition from Old 
to Middle Tamil and contain on the one hand many interesting 
transitional forms, on the other hand experiments with the young genre 
of devotional poetry, looking back to the earlier conventions of /Akam 
/and /Pu?am/, playing with them and partly going beyond them. This 
volume offers a metrical Tamil text with print variants and a first 
glance into a few manuscripts, a word-split transliterated version and 
an annotated English translation. It includes, along with an 
introduction and an epilogue on theology, an analytical 
glossary-concordance and three appendices concerned with names and 
epithets of the deities, with incarnations and mythic episodes, and with 
temples and toponyms.
//
*About the authors*
*Eva Wilden *has been a scientific member (ma?tre de conf?rences) of the 
EFEO from 2003 to 2017, working on the critical re-edition and the 
