[INDOLOGY] Overseas students and online teaching (US)
Regulation #3affects students at institutions that adopt the hybrid 
mode, who are already in the US. I think of one of my neighbors, a 
member of the youthful squad who have volunteered to run critical 
errands for the elderly who are most at risk in this pandemic among some 
1000 residents in our building. She is about to enter into the final 
year of the doctoral program of Penn?s Wharton School of Business. Penn 
has chosen a hybrid mode of instruction, details of which are being 
worked out. Her first priority may have to be finding a course that is 
taught in person instead of what is most relevant for her dissertation 
and/or her career plans, in this last shot at academic education. I 
think also of Penn?s International Student and Scholar Services who may 
have to deflect from their role of helping vast numbers of international 
students navigate an unfamiliar environment, in order to monitor each 
international student?s roster against a list of courses taught in 
person and attest that each is in compliance with ICE regulations. Such 
a level of detail and of intrusion in educational planning would reek of 
bureaucratic harassment. I cannot see how kicking my young friend out of 
the country might contribute to mitigating Covid contagion and/or 
reinvigorating the American economy. She is not an Indologist, but she 
is a living representative of the international flow of scholarship that 
this list so demonstrably fosters. I guess I will just get her another 
box of blueberries, her comfort food.
Rosane
On 7/6/20 6:33 PM, Dan Lusthaus wrote:
