From westerhoff at cantab.net  Wed Nov 18 08:57:17 2020
From: westerhoff at cantab.net (Jan Westerhoff)
Date: Wed, 18 Nov 20 08:57:17 +0000
Subject: [INDOLOGY] Future Leaders Fellowship in Indian Philosophy at Oxford
Message-ID: <47386.192.76.8.85.1605689837.squirrel@www.cantab.net>

Future Leaders Fellowships: Indian Philosophy and Mediaeval Islamic
Philosophy, University of Oxford


Call for expressions of interest



The Faculty of Philosophy at the University of Oxford seeks expressions of
interest from potential applicants in the field of Indian Philosophy, and
in the field of Mediaeval Islamic Philosophy, to the UKRI Future Leaders
Fellowship scheme
(https://www.ukri.org/opportunity/future-leaders-fellowships-round-6/).
The Faculty hopes to support one or more applicants in these areas in the
current round of the scheme.

The Future Leaders Fellowship is of four years? duration, it allows the
possibility of extension for up to a further three years, and it will come
with a college association. At the end of the fellowship, the Faculty
intends to create new permanent posts, with a corresponding Area of
Specialisation, which the holder of the Future Leaders Fellowship will be
eligible to apply for. The intended start date for the Fellowships is
October 2021.



The Faculty intends these Fellowships to play a key role in broadening the
areas of research and teaching currently pursued within philosophy in
Oxford, whilst retaining connection and dialogue with our existing areas
of strength in research and teaching
(https://www.philosophy.ox.ac.uk/research;
https://www.philosophy.ox.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses ).



Potential applicants should have an ambitious research programme in Indian
Philosophy or in Mediaeval Islamic Philosophy which is suitable for
development over four or more years, and they should have an interest in
developing their subject-area both in terms of research and in teaching in
Oxford.



Applicants should hold, or be close to completion of, a doctoral degree
(PhD or DPhil) in philosophy or a closely related subject. In addition to
outstanding potential for research in the relevant area, they should
either already have, or show evidence of the commitment and potential to
acquire during the course of the Fellowship, the ability to contribute to
elements of the core undergraduate philosophy curriculum in Oxford (see
https://www.philosophy.ox.ac.uk/course-descriptions-first-public-examination-fpe
;
https://www.philosophy.ox.ac.uk/course-descriptions-finals#collapse390701
for an outline of the curriculum).



We request expressions of interest by Midday UK time (GMT) on Friday 27
November 2020 to admin at philosophy.ox.ac.uk.



Expressions of interest should contain a full up-to-date CV (including as
relevant teaching experience and interests) and a brief outline statement
(no longer than 500 words) of the proposed programme of research. Please
include links to your strongest piece, or pieces, of research, published
or otherwise, and if possible, please request a referee (or referees) who
is (are) able to comment on the strength of your research to send a letter
of reference by the same date. We will contact successful candidates no
later than 4 December, in order to meet the UKRI scheme?s initial deadline
of 10 December. We will work with successful candidates to develop their
full application in time for the final UKRI deadline of 19 January 2021.



If you have any questions, please contact the Chair of the Philosophy
Faculty Board, Professor Chris Timpson (christopher.timpson at bnc.ox.ac.uk)




***************************
JC Westerhoff
Lady Margaret Hall
University of Oxford
Norham Gardens
Oxford OX2 6QA
United Kingdom

www.janwesterhoff.net
westerhoff at cantab.net






