 From a preliminary comparison of textual parallels of the Dak.sa  
myth in the original Skandapuraa.na (SP 32), Li"ngapuraa.na (LiP  
1.100) and Vaayaviiyasa.mhitaa ("SiP VaayaviiyaS 1.19--20) I have  
concluded (in my as yet unpublished thesis, p. 180) that the  
Li"ngapuraa.na here presupposes the Skandapuraa.na, and that the  
Vaayaviiyasa.mhitaa in its turn has adapted material from the  
Li"ngapuraa.na. Note that my conclusion regarding the priority of the  
Li"ngapuraa.na to the Vaayaviiyasa.mhitaa is contrary to the one  
voiced by Annemarie Mertens in her book Der Dak.samythus in der  
episch-pura.nischen Literatur, Wiesbaden 1998, p. 231.
An early testimony of the Li"ngapuraa.na is Yaamuna's  
Aagamapraamaa.nya. Yaamuna quotes two verses  which he attributes to  
the Lai"nga (GOS edition, pp. 87 and 90), and they are attested in  
the Puurvabhaaga (LiP 1.23.143) and the Uttarabhaaga (LiP  
2.1.7cd--8ab) of the Li"ngapuraa.na. Another one on p. 100 remains  
unidentified. Yaamuna also quotes a Vaayaviiya, but that refers to  
the Vaayupuraa.na (p. 90: VaaP 7.66cd = B.dP 1.2.6.63cd). Thus at  
least part of the Li"ngapuraa.na must have been in existence by the  
10th century, but not much earlier I would say. The "Sivapuraa.na's  
Vaayaviiyasa.mhitaa (at least its Dak.sa episode) would have to be  
dated after this. This conclusion is in line with the general  
impression that the "Sivapuraa.na is later than the Li"ngapuraa.na.
Peter Bisschop
On 23 Apr 2006, at 05:46, Dominic Goodall wrote:
