>From N.N. Bhattacharyya, "The Geographical Dictionary 
-- Ancient and Early Medieval India" 1991, Munshiram:

>Mujavant, Mujavat
>A people that took their name from Mujavant, a 
mountain in the Himalayas.
>They are mentioned along with the Mahavrsas, 
Gandhaaris and Baalhikas in AV
>V.22.5-14. They are also mentioned in Taitt. Sam. 
I.8.62; Kaathaka Sam.IX.7, XXXVI.14; Mait. Sam. 
I.4.10.20; Vaaj. Sam. III.61; Sat. Br.
>II.6.2.17; Baudh. D.S. II.5

I found the following references in Macdonell and 
Keith, Vedic Index, 1958, Motilal:

MUjavant is the name of a people who, along with the 
mahAvRshas, the gandhAris, and the balhikas, are 
mentioned in the Atharvaveda (v.22,5.7.9.14 cf. 
baudhAyana Srauta sUtra, ii.5) as dwelling far away, 
and to whom fever is to be banished. Similarly in the 
yajurveda saMhitAs (TaittirIya S, i.8,6,2;Kathaka S, 
ix.7; xxxvi.14; maitrAyaNI s, i.4,10.20; vAjasneyi s, 
iii.61; Satapatha b, ii.6,2,17) the mUjavants are 
chosen as a type of distant folk, beyond which rudra 
with his bow is entreated to depart. In the Rgveda 
(x.34,1) soma is described as maujavata, 'coming from 
the mUjavants,' or, as yAska (Nirukta, ix.8) takes it, 
'from mount mUjavant.' The Indian commentators 
(mahIdhara on vAjasneyi s, loc.cit.; sAyaNa on RV. 
i.161,8; baudhAyana Srauta sUtra and prayoga, cited by 
Hillebrandt, vedische mythologie, 1,63) agree with 
yAska in taking mUjavant as the name of a mountain, 
and though Hillebrandt (op.cit., 1,65) is justified in 
saying that the identification of mUjavant by Zimmer 
(Altindisches leben, 29) with one of the lower hills 
on the south-west of kashmIr lacks evidence, it is not 
reasonable to deny that mUjavant was a hill from which 
the people took their name. yAska (loc. cit. cf. 
siddhAnta kaumudI on pANini, iv.4,110, where insead o 
maujavata in RV x.34, maunjavata is read) suggests 
that mUjavant is equivalent to munjavant, which 
actually occurs later, in the epic (mahAbhArata, 
x.785; xiv,180) as the name of a mountain in the 
himAlaya.

In the Iranian tradition, haoma is reportedly obtained 
from haraqaiti (which is cognate with sarasvati). 

Would it be reasonable to search for names of 
mountains proximate to the banks of the sarasvati 
river, i.e. south of the sutlej, or not too far from 
gandhAra? 

If so, could it be a mountain in the khetri copper 
belt in Rajasthan?

Regards, and thanks again to Beatrice,

Dr. S. Kalyanaraman
kalyans at ix.netcom.com


 





