Vedic Sarasvati
To support Dr. S Kalyanaraman I would like to cite the recent archaelogical
find at Rakhigarhi, Haryana  in India which dates back to 2400 BC and
believed to be part of the Harappan civilization. The article dated Feb.
21st in Hindustan Times,New Delhi (magazine section)  states the proximity
of the flood plains ancient rivers  Drishadvati and Saraswati.  The work on
this site is ongoing  and appears to be very exciting.
                                                                  Ravi
Khanna
S.Kalyanaraman
Sent:   Saturday, February 20, 1999 1:16 PM
       Vedic Sarasvati
The following recent publication (Jan. 1999) may be of interest:
Vedic Sarasvati--Evolutionary History of a Lost River of Northwestern India,
eds. B.P.Radhakrishna and S.S.Merh, Memoir 42 of the Geological Society of
India, PB 1922, Gavipuram, P.O., Bangalore 560019; the work includes papers
from a Seminar on Drainage Evolution of Northwestern India with particular
reference to the Lost River Sarasvati held in Vadodara in December 1997, MS
University of Baroda and also classical writings such as Oldham's and
Wilhelmy's contributions. The consensus: vedic sarasvati river was the river
flowing from Bandarpunch massif, Har-ki-dun valley, Himalayas to the Gulf of
Khambat through Kurukshetra, Kalibangan, Ganweriwala, Dholavira (Kotda),
Rojdi.
I found the following citation from Sediyapu Krishna Bhat, Discovery of
Facts:
origin and the real meanings of Arya, Varna, Jati and Linga, Govinda Pai
Samshodana Kendra, Udupi, 108 pp., 1996: 'Dravida' comes from dru-ila or
dravila or forest dwellers (dru = tree)); 'arya' from verbal root 'r' which
means 'to split' or 'to scratch'; arara in L. means 'ploughing'; the term
'aryan' appears to have applied to people who scratched or tilled the soil.
Regards,
Dr. S. Kalyanaraman
More than just email--Get your FREE Netscape WebMail account today at
http://home.netscape.com/netcenter/mail
