From senthurann at YAHOO.COM  Thu May 27 17:11:36 1999
From: senthurann at YAHOO.COM (Senthuran Nagalingam)
Date: Thu, 27 May 99 10:11:36 -0700
Subject: Parvata in VP 2.486-"grandhamAtrE vyvasthitaH"
Message-ID: <161227049520.23782.11534357531531491199.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

I do not see the connection between Parvata mentioned
in VP 2.486 and the following story. Also, this
baffles
me:"So a live tradition of pANinian grammer at the
time
of VP is a disqualification for that part of India to
be the source of pANinian vyAkaraNa."

Sincerely,
Senthuran, N.

Mr. D. V. N. Sarma wrote:
<<<
sAtavAhanAs were encouraging prAkrit upto hAla
sAtavAhanA. One his queens who was a Ceylonese
princess
made fun of him for his lack of sanskrit
knowledge.(mAM
mOdakais[mA+udakaiH] tADaya). Stung to the quick he
wanted to learn sanskrit in a hurry. The pANinian
scholar and minister guNADhya offered to teach him
sanskrit along with the grammer in 6 years. (Usually
it
takes 12 years). One of the younger ministers by name
sarvavarman said that he can do it within six months.
sarvavarman by the grace of kArtikEya wrote a new
vyAkaraNa called kAlApaka vyAkaraNa or kAtantra. He
taught hAla sanskrit within six months they say. In
what measure we do not know but who will dare say that

king hasn't learnt it, when the king decides he has
learnt it. As per the bet that was made earlier
guNADhya abjured using the all the civilised languages
including sanskrit and went to forest to compose his
magnumopus bRhatkatha in paizAchi.

The above clearly show the conditions in Andhra were
such that the the phrase "grandhamAtrE vyvasthitaH"
applies very nicely to pANinian grammer. The reason is

in the beginning the court language was prAkrit. Even
later when sanskrit was studied it was through
kAtantra
because "yathA rAjA tathA prajA" applies.

Let me add one thing the katantra was really a good
effort for some time it was used in almost all parts
of
India and even now it is used in Bengal.

So a live tradition of pANinian grammer at the time of

VP is a disqualification for that part of India to be
the source of pANinian vyAkaraNa.

regards,
sarma.
 >>>

_________________________________________________________
Do You Yahoo!?
Get your free @yahoo.com address at http://mail.yahoo.com




