!Re: Sri Aurobindo
Thank you Louis. This means that some of my other sources are not
entirely correct, or at least not complete. Here is what Jaffrelot says:
The Aryans of the Vedic era are described as a chosen people to whom
"the formless God revealed perfect knowledge of the Veda". Some time
after Creation, they came down from Tibet into Aryavarta - a virgin
territory between the Himalayas and Vindhya mountains, the Indus and the
Brahmaputra - and then became the "sovereign lords of the Earth", whose
inhabitants they instructed in Sanskrit, the "mother of all languages".
Jaffrelot refers to "The Light of Truth", pp. 248, 277-9, and 341-5.
Hans Joachim Klimkeit also mentions the Tibetan theory (Klimkeit,
Hans-Joachim. 1981. Der politische Hinduismus. Indische Denker zwischen
religi?ser Reform und politischem Erwachen. Wiesbaden: Otto
Harrassowitz., p. 233)
Jordans also mentions the Tibetan theory, sp. 254. However, Jordans also
state that D. rejected the Aryan invasion theory. In other words, the
Aryans that presumably entered India from Tibet came to an emptly
territory. This is admittedly an important nuance.
So once again, thank you for the reference. It is very useful, and shows
that the seeds of Indigenous Aryanism go back into the nineteenth
century, even if Dayananda is somewhat ambivalent in his formulations.
Lars Martin
