1998. Of _From Early Vedanta to Kashmir Shaivism: Gaudapada, Bhartrhari,
and Abhinavagupta_ by Natalia Isayeva. Journal of the American Oriental
Society 118.4:550-551.


Addition to note 44 of the article  "Vaacaspati-mi;sra's Tattva-samiik.saa
and ...:

Subsequent to the publication of the article, I happened to read Dinesh
Chandra Bhattacharya's 1946 article "More light on Sanskrit literature of
Bengal (Hindu period)," published in the Indian Historical quarterly
22:127-151. On pp. 143-150 of this important article, Bhattacharya makes a
good case to the effect that ;Srii-har.sa, the author of the
Kha.n.dana-kha.n.da-khaadya and the Nai.sadha-carita, among other works,
should be thought of as originally hailing from Bengal but spending a
significant part of his life in Kashi-Varanasi. The epithet gau.dena
employed by Vaacaspati-mi;sra-II, then, need not become applicable to
;Srii-har.sa through the 'Pa;nca-gau.d' concept as I have supposed. The
extraordinary scholar-poet can be viewed as a Gau.da in the sense 'one
belonging to the Gau.da country.' Secondly, without giving any of the
information or reasons I have given, Bhattacharya emends the faulty reading
utana gau.dena of the Kha.n.danoddhaara ms to uttaana-gau.dena and takes it
(as I have taken) as applying to Vaacaspati-mi;sra-II's philosophical
opponent, namely ;Srii-har.sa, as an expression of contempt. Although
Bhattacharya's construal is thus acceptable to me, I find his emendation
and the sense he attaches to it ('supine Gau.da') problematic. It is
transcriptionally probable that utana could be a corruption of uttaana.
However, I consider it improbable that Vaacaspati-mi;sra-II would refer to
his adversary as 'one lying on his back' in the subject part of his
sentence. Until another ms containing the the full text of the third
quarter of the verse is discovered, we would be better off in entertaining
emendations such as hatena, mattena or d.rptena as contextually more
appropriate.




