Aryabhatt (Elder)
The issue is slightly more complicated than a clash of personalities. This
may have been part of the problem, but not all. It is true that lectures
based on Copernicus's original manuscript were given before Clement VII, who
even approved of the work. However, opponents of a heliocentric system
included not only Roman Catholics but also leaders of the Reformation. The
shift in thinking required for accepting the new model was problematic for
all Christians, not just for Roman Catholics. When Copernicus's work was
finally published in Leipzig, the publisher added his own disclaimer, saying
that the new system was only a convenient hypothesis that simplified
computations. Between Clement VII in 1536 and Urban VIII in 1642, the
Catholic church had gone through some tumultous times and had hardened its
attitude towards many issues.
It took a while for the ramifications of the new theory to sink in. The
larger issue was that a belief in the Copernican system severely threatened
both the undue reliance of Christian theology on Aristotle, and the old idea
that the earth is the fixed center of the universe. And it remains true that
it was only a few years ago that the Catholic church formally admitted that
Galileo was right. I daresay that they had unofficially admitted it much
earlier. After all, the Vatican funds and oversees a number of modern
astronomical research projects in the USA. On a different scientific issue,
note that the battle between creationism and evolution continues, mostly in
the American "Bible belt."
Vidyasankar
Get Your Private, Free Email at http://www.hotmail.com
