Posting of computer,              transliteration and font etc. questions to Indology
Dear list members,
One of the areas that I am involved in is helping produce books for
production that contain roman transliteration and/or devanagari text and I
have found the Indology list and archives invaluable in providing
information on fonts, standards, packages, cross-platform problems etc. and
by the number of entries in the archives on this area it seems that many
other members are also interested in this.  For example Prof. Aklujkar's
recent posting about his methodology.  I've always been loath to post very
specific questions on problems or solutions I encounter in this area because
the number of replies would clog the bandwidth and the answers would
probably not be of interest to the majority of list members.  (I'm talking
about very specific questions such as "Using font x with operating system y
when I send it over the net to operating system z wierd thing abc happens"
etc.)
It occured to me that if enough members were interested we could set up a
chat room for this purpose.  Almost an on-line timely mutual help facility
for this purpose.  One idea I had about the way it might work is:  If
someone had a computer, font, or  transliteration question that needed a
timely answer and some mutual question/answer dialogue was probably needed
then they could send a very short posting to Indology letting them know
there was a new question in the chat room.  Those members interested in this
could then correspond thru the chat room without worrying about clogging
Indology's bandwidth even if it took many back and forth messages to solve
the problem.
1) Perhaps Dominik could say whether he feels this is appropriate for the
Indology list.
2) If other members are interested perhaps they could indicate this or if
they have another idea.
Yours,
Harry Spier
Get Your Private, Free Email at http://www.hotmail.com
