From hhhock at UX1.CSO.UIUC.EDU  Sun Feb 10 02:55:20 2002
From: hhhock at UX1.CSO.UIUC.EDU (hans henrich hock)
Date: Sat, 09 Feb 02 20:55:20 -0600
Subject: Librarian position at UIUC
Message-ID: <161227070468.23782.2793102819455649291.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

<bold><fontfamily><param>Arial</param><bigger><bigger>South Asian
Studies Librarian and

Assistant, Associate or Full Professor of Library Administration

</bigger></bigger></fontfamily></bold><fontfamily><param>Arial</param><bigger><bigger>University
of Illinois Library at Urbana-Champaign


</bigger><bold>Position Available:

</bold>As soon as possible, after the closing date.  A full-time
tenured or tenure-track faculty position.


<bold>Duties and Responsibilities: </bold>Reporting to the Head of the
Asian Library, the South Asian Studies Librarian is responsible for all
aspects of collection management and development for South Asia,
including Bangladesh, India, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka.  The
duties include selection of information resources, storage and weeding
decisions, faculty liaison, collection interpretation, evaluation, and
budgetary and personnel management.  The librarian provides
bibliographic and reference services to faculty, students, and visiting
scholars, performs original cataloging and complex copy cataloging of
South Asian language publications, supervises support staff, serves as
liaison with faculty and students for the Program in South Asian and
Middle Eastern Studies, and represents the University in national
programs such as SAMP.  In addition, as one of five professional
librarians in the Asian Library, the South Asian Studies Librarian will
be responsible for supervising one Asian Library processing function
(e.g. acquisitions, cataloging, circulation), and will perform other
responsibilities as assigned.


<bold>Environment:</bold>  The University of Illinois Library at
Urbana-Champaign is one of the preeminent research collections in the
nation and the world. With more than 9 million volumes and a total of
21 million items, it ranks third among academic libraries in the United
States and first among public university libraries in the world. As the
intellectual heart of the campus, the Library is committed to
maintaining the strongest collections and services possible and
engaging in research and development activities-both of which support
the University's mission of teaching, research, and public service. The
Library currently employs approximately 100 faculty and 300 staff
members. For more detailed information, please visit
<underline><color><param>0000,0000,00FF</param>http://www.library.uiuc.edu/</color></underline>.


The Library consists of more than 40 departmental libraries that are
located throughout campus and administratively organized into eight
divisions.  The Asian Library is one of six units within the Area
Studies Division of the University Library system.  It serves the
faculty and students of the Program in South Asian and Middle Eastern
Studies, the Department of East Asian Languages and Cultures, the
Center for East Asian and Pacific Studies, members of the local
community, and visiting scholars from across the nation and the world. 
Staff consists of 5 FTE professional librarians and 6 FTE support staff
and student assistants.  The Asian collection contains over 340,000
volumes, of which 104,000 volumes are South Asian language materials,
including Hindi, Sanskrit, Urdu, and Tamil.  In addition, the Asian
Library includes an extensive collection of Chinese, Japanese, Korean,
Arabic, Hebrew, and Persian language materials.


The University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign has a strong commitment
to international studies and has supported considerable expansion of
its Program in South Asian and Middle Eastern Studies. This offers
exciting opportunities for the South Asian Studies Librarian for
interaction and participation in further development of the Program.


<bold>Qualifications:  <underline>Required</underline>: </bold>MLS from
an ALA accredited library school or its equivalent; strong
English-language communication skills; language and subject expertise
in South Asia, especially Hindi and Sanskrit, and knowledge and
understanding of South Asian culture; knowledge of, or experience in
reference and collection development; cataloging experience, including
experience with LC classification, LCSH, LCRI, AACR2, MARC format and
familiarity with a bibliographic utility, preferably OCLC; knowledge of
library applications of computer technology and online databases and
electronic information; a strong commitment to excellence in public
service and the ability to work effectively in a culturally diverse
environment; demonstrated initiative, flexibility, creativity, and the
ability to handle multiple responsibilities; evidence of research
orientation and ability to meet university requirements for promotion
and tenure.  <bold><underline>Preferred</underline>:</bold> Familiarity
with Urdu or South Asian languages; evidence of an understanding of the
publishing and book trade industry in South Asia as well as methods of
acquiring materials; the ability to work effectively with faculty,
students, staff, and the community; excellent oral, written, and
interpersonal communication skills; supervisory experience; experience
in an academic or research library; course work or advanced degree in
South Asian studies or related field of study; two years experience as
a South Asian studies librarian in an academic library.


<bold>Salary and Rank:  </bold>Salary is competitive, and is
commensurate with experience and credentials for appointment as
Assistant Professor, Associate Professor or Full Professor, depending
on service and research record.  Librarians have faculty rank and must
demonstrate excellence in librarianship, research and
university/professional/ community service in order to meet university
standards for tenure and promotion.


<bold>Terms of Appointment: </bold>Twelve month appointment; 24 work
days vacation per year; 11 paid holidays; 12 annual sick leave days
(cumulative), plus additional 13 days (non cumulative) per year if
necessary; health insurance, requiring a small co-payment, is provided
to employees (coverage for dependents may be purchased); participation
in the State Universities Retirement System which includes several
private options including TIAA-CREF, is compulsory upon appointment (8%
of member's salary is withheld, is tax exempt, and is refundable upon
termination); newly hired university employees are covered by the
Medicare portion of Social Security, and are subject to its deduction.


<bold>Campus and Community</bold>: The University of Illinois at
Urbana-Champaign is a comprehensive and major public land-grant
university (Doctoral/Research University-Extensive) that is ranked
among the best in the world. Chartered in 1867, it provides
undergraduate and graduate education in more than 150 fields of study,
conducts theoretical and applied research, and provides public service
to the state and the nation. It employs 2,000 faculty members who serve
26,000 undergraduates and 10,000 graduate and professional students;
approximately 25% of faculty receive campuswide recognition each year
for excellence in teaching. More information about the campus is
available at
<underline><color><param>0000,0000,00FF</param>www.uiuc.edu.


</color></underline>The University is located in the twin cities of
Champaign and Urbana, which have a combined population of 100,000 and
are situated about 140 miles south of Chicago, 120 miles west of
Indianapolis, and 170 northeast of St. Louis. The University and its
surrounding communities offer a cultural and recreational environment
ideally suited to the work of a major research institution. For more
information about the community, visit
<underline><color><param>0000,0000,00FF</param>http://www.uiuc.edu/misc/campus.html</color></underline>,
<underline><color><param>0000,0000,00FF</param>http://www.cucvb.org/</color></underline>,
or
<underline><color><param>0000,0000,00FF</param>http://www.ccchamber.org/</color></underline>.


<bold>Apply:  </bold>Send letter of application and complete resume
with the names, addresses, and telephone numbers of three references
to:  Cindy Kelly, Head, Library Human Resources, University of Illinois
Library at Urbana-Champaign, 1408 West Gregory Drive, Suite 127,
Urbana, Illinois, 61801, (217) 333-8168.  E-mail mokelly at uiuc.edu. 
Electronic applications are acceptable initially, but must be followed
by a hard copy with signature.


<bold>Deadline:  </bold>In order to ensure maximum consideration,
applications and nominations should be submitted by March 29, 2002.  As
soon as possible.


<bold><italic>THE UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS IS AN AFFIRMATIVE ACTION/

EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
</italic></bold></bigger></fontfamily>
-------------- next part --------------
A non-text attachment was scrubbed...
Name: attachment.bin
Type: text/enriched
Size: 8619 bytes
Desc: not available
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20020209/033aff9f/attachment.bin>

