Hicks and Anderson? From a scientist's point of view, the deficiencies 
pointed
out in their work seem serious. For example, Ms. Ratnagar says that the 
radio-
carbon dating in the original article did not cite a laboratory reference. 
Who
did the experiments, and where? Hicks and Anderson should be held 
accountable
to disclose this information. Even with this, the fact that the dating 
relies
on indirect evidence makes it prone to error. I don't know if Hicks and
Anderson
were purposely being dishonest - such charges of dishonesty are very serious
and are not made lightly in the world of scientists and engineers. But there
do seem to be glaring deficiencies in the original work, if Ms. Ratnagar is
right.

There are other interesting arguments in the review, which I won't go into
here. But it is interesting to note that Ms. Ratnagar says that nobody
seriously subscribes to the "invasion" theory any more. And she is right in
saying "we must not throw the baby out with the bathwater", when deriving
the ultimate ancestry of Vedic from some proto-Indo European tongue. She 
also
says that it is unjustified to infer about language purely from 
archeological
artefacts - which seems highly reasonable, in the absence of decipherable
inscriptions on the artefacts.

S. Vidyasankar

ps. The same issue of Frontline has an article by E. M. S. Namboodiripad,
about r.gvedic chanting, from a typically Marxist perspective. Mr.
Namboodiripad
enjoys the double privilege of having learnt the r.gveda as a youngster, and
then graduating into a leader of Indian communists in his political career.
If nothing else, it catalogs one man's disillusionment with having to learn
the veda by rote, without understanding a word of it. Never mind that he
contradicts himself, within the space of two paragraphs, regarding the
political
identity or otherwise of the Indian people(s).







