  From the standpoint of the gross body it may be said to shine
forth externally as the world by means of the brain. But the
gross body is of the mind only. The mind may be said
to consist of four inner organs, or the principle composed of
thoughts, or the sixth sense; or combining intellect with the
ego, and chitta with the mind (i.e. memory-faculty with the
thinking faculty), it may be taken to consist of two parts (the
ego and the mind). In the latter case the vijnanatma (the
intellectual Self) or the ego or the seer forms the subject,
and the mental sheath or the seen, the object.

  The waking, dream and sleep states have their origin in the
Original Darkness (mula avidya). With the mind outgoing and
deriving experiences from its modes in the waking and dream
states, and indrawn in sleep, experiencing with modes of Maya,
a unique power regulates all activities of the individuals and
of the universe. All these are only phenomena passing through
the Reflected Light on the substratum of the Self-radiant
Being.

    Just as a rope-snake cannot be seen in broad daylight, nor
rope itself in thick darkness, so also the world appears
neither in the samadhi state of Self-shining pure Being or in
deep sleep, swoon, etc. Only in Reflected Light (Light mixed
with Darkness or knowledge soiled by Ignorance) can the world,
not independent of its Source, seem to rise up, flourish and be
resolved. Its diversity too cannot be exclusive of the Reality,
the original Source. Here a play is going on in which the One
Single Being becomes manifold is objectified and then
withdrawn. There must be a Sakti (Power) to do it, and
wonderful too! She cannot also be independent of Her origin. In
the Self-shining Pure Being this Sakti cannot be seen.
Nevertheless, Her actions are only too well-known. 
   How sublime!

