 [From Sri Ramana Maharshi, in "Talks..."]

  D.: What does Maharshi think of the theory of universal
illusion (Maya)?
  M.: What is Maya? It is only Reality.
  D.: Is not Maya illusion?
  M.: Maya is used to signify the manifestations of the
Reality. Thus Maya is only Reality.
  D.: Some say that Sri Sankaracharya was only intellectual and
not realised. Is it so?
  M.: Why worry about Sankaracharya? Realise your own Self.
Others can take care of themselves.

.  .  .

  D.: What is the goal of this process?
  M.: Realising the Real.
  D.: What is the nature of the Reality?
  M.: (a) Existence without beginning or end - eternal.
      (b) Existence everywhere, endless, infinite.
      (c) Existence underlying all forms, all changes, all
      forces, all matter and all spirit. The many change 
      and pass away (phenomena), whereas the One 
      always endures (noumenon).
      (d) The one displacing the triads, i.e., the knower, the
      knowledge and the known. The triads are only appearances 
      in time and space, whereas the Reality lies beyond and 
      behind them. They are like a mirage over the Reality. They 
      are the result of delusion.

  D.: If 'I' also be an illusion, who then casts off the
illusion?
  M.: The 'I' casts off the illusion of 'I' and yet remains as
'I'. Such is the paradox of Self-Realisation. The realised do
not see any contradiction in it. Take the case of bhakti -
approach Iswara and pray to be absorbed in Him. I then
surrender myself in faith and by concentration. What remains
afterwards? In place of the original 'I', perfect self-
surrender leaves a residuum of God in which the 'I' is lost.
This is the highest form of devotion (parabhakti), prapatti,
surrender or the height of vairagya.
  You give up this and that of 'my' possessions. If you give up
'I' and 'Mine' instead, all are given up at a stroke. The very
seed of possession is lost. Thus the evil is nipped in the bud
or crushed in the germ itself. Dispassion (vairagya) must be
very strong to do this. Eagerness to do it must be equal to
that of a man kept under water trying to rise up to the surface
for his life.

  .  .  .

  199. The ladies later asked several questions relating to
their present inability to realise the already realised,
eternal Self. The sign of Realisation would be Bliss, which was
absent.
  Maharshi said : There is only one consciousness. But we speak
of several kinds of consciousness, as body-consciousness, Self-
consciousness. They are only relative states of the same
Absolute consciousness. Without consciousness, time and space
do not exist. They appear in consciousness. It is like a screen
on which these are cast as pictures and move as in a cinema
show. The Absolute consciousness is our real nature.

