From Kalyans at aol.com  Wed Jun  7 13:50:53 1995
From: Kalyans at aol.com (Kalyans at aol.com)
Date: Wed, 07 Jun 95 09:50:53 -0400
Subject: Sememe: ayana; sun and property
Message-ID: <161227019624.23782.8668252100208814573.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

I shall be grateful for clarifications on the etymon: ayana. This may have
significance in the context of the Indus-Sarasvati civilization.

Semantically, it signifies a movement or shift; cf. uttarAyaNa, dakshiNAyaNa
denoting the winter and summer solstices signified by movement or apparent
transition of  the sun into the zodiacal signs of cancer and capricorn. These
are such important celestial events that festivals are organized on these
critical dates. cf. bhogi or rohRi or bhogya of the winter solstice when
winter crop produce is apportioned and old clothes, etc. are burnt
symbolizing the renewal. This is sankrAnti, a festival of great antiquity
across the entire sub-continent.

There are homonymous etyma which are linked to property. The key is to
unravel the Arabic, Persian or 'Indic' radicals.

Ain (Arabic) property actually existing, specific sum or value, the most
precious part of property; Ayen (Marathi) = original fixed or standard
assessment of the revenue or the lands bearing such assessment. AyaN (Tamil)
a general term for the revenue collected on six kinds of produce.  Ayah
(Sanskrit) = income, profit; Aya, Ayam (Kannada, Tamil) toll, tax, tribute,
custom, measurement; in the south, the portion of the crop formerly paid to
the hereditary village officers and servants

EnukA, yenukA, enukA, yenke (Malayalam [Malabar]) a document of various
application, but connected with the transfer of landed property; as, a
certificate or acknowledgment from the owner to a lessee or mortgage that he
has let or mortgaged his estate; authority to such lessee or mortgagee to
transfer his interest to another. cf. AyAn-i-mazmun (Arabic) = things lent or
pledged, to be restored, when redeemed, in the same condition as when
deposited.

But, cf. ayin, ayeen (Hindi) rule, statute, custom. AyIn (Persian) laws,
statutes, rules, regulations of secular authority (as distinct from sacred
tradition).

Kannada has an extraordinary, and definitive etymon which seems to link both
the solsticial and property semantics. hainu = the period betweeen May and
September--that of the heavy rains; hainu-gadde = wet lands, for sowing rice
during the monsoon; hainu-pairu = corn standing in the heavy wet weather. cf.
Aya-ketta (Malayalam) = land prepared for cultivation; Ayakallu (Marathi) =
rent on government lands in cultivation; Aya-kaTTU (Kannada, Tamil) =
settlement, regulation; measurement of lands; account of the total land of a
village.

The phoneme 'ain' seems to have a homonym which can be depicted pictorially,
say, in the Indus script signs or pictorial motifs. ain = five; ayana =
svastika symbol (right- or left-handed arms) to picture the solticial shift
of the sun's movement on the sky. Perhaps, also with a picture of Ana, yAnai,
Enugu  (Malayalam, Tamil, Telugu) = elephant. Five svastikas, svastikas
(solo) and elephant are some emphatic pictorial motifs of the indus script.

I am searching for answers to a number of quesions: Are there cognate etyma
in other languages? What are the epigraphical or literary (textual)
evidences? What is the evidence in Pali with cognate sememes?

Dr. S. Kalyanaraman kalyans at aol.com
 





