>From this, it is but a small step, to propose that not only can the
individual soul be reborn in the past and the future, it can even be
reborn in the present! Thus, my neighbour with whom I am carrying on a
conversation could be my own self reborn (or vice versa) and his or
her neighbour and friend could all be rebirths of my soul. If we
extend this scenario enough, a final picture will force itself on us,
which also, by the way, provides ground for good ethics on pragmatic
grounds. There are no other souls than our own.  Every other soul is
just a rebirth of this one soul at a different time and place.  Notice
also, how things even out very nicely in the final reckoning.  There
need even be no final reckoning. As long as we consider that every
sentient being is just our own soul reborn at a different point in
space-time, everything is always in a state of balance. What you
do to your neighbour you are doing to yourself.  Christ's ethical
dictum "Do unto others what you would like others to do unto you" now
becomes pragmatically founded. When you kill a butterfly, you have
just killed yourself as a butterfly. You create and spend the karmic
consequence simultaneously.  You start off with a nil balance and you
end with a nil balance in your karmic bank.  Indeed, you are always in
a state of no debits and no credits.  The real individual soul, of
which there is but one, can now be identified with Sankara's grand
universal soul.  The atman is the Atman.  It is perpetually in the
state of equanimity.

--
 





