Vedic l
Dear Peter,
Vedic .l will no doubt have to designate some kind of "weakened" form  
of .d and thus would be a parallel to Hindi (etc.) .r . But that  
doesn't clarify its phonetic nature. One would like to think of it as  
some kind of retroflex tap with lateral closure; but I'm not sure  
that the descriptions in the early Vedic phonetic texts will be  
helpful in confirming this.
There is an interesting parallel, which might be worthy of  
consideration: At some stage in late MIAr, intervocalic single n and  
l become sounds that are written .n and .l , contrasting with n and  
l, the regular outcomes of initial n l and intervocalic nn ll. Here  
again there is an indication that .n and .l designate "weaker"  
sounds, since they occur in typical positions of weakening, while n  
and l occur in typically strong positions. Some of the peripheral  
NIAr varieties preserve .n and/or .l from these sources, although  
much of NIAr has lost the contrast, partly in connection with the  
"Gangetic dentalization". (On this matter, you might consult Masica's  
Indo-Aryan languages, following up some of the references. Turner,  
too, had some interesting things to say on this which, I believe,  
appeared in his collected papers.) Unfortunately, I'm not aware of  
any phonetic examination of the realization of .n and .l in the NIAr  
varieties that keep them. However, the pronunciation of .n in  
Sanskritic words in Hindi as nasalized retroflex flap may provide  
some clues.
That's about all that I can think of. Maybe somebody else on the list  
has some other or better ideas and/or access to other or better  
phonetic observations.
All the best,
Hans
On 21 Aug 2008, at 15:32, Peter M. Scharf wrote:
