Spoken Sanskrit
Dear Rasik Joshi Tripathi,
I myself spoke Sanskrit for a year with pandits from the Sanskrit  
Sanskrit college -- I made sure none of them knew English.  I became  
pretty fluent, and was intrigued to discover that my wife, who is  
Tamil and has studied Tamil literature thoroughly, could understand us  
after a time.  Colloquial Tamil contains thousands of Sanskrit words,  
though of course high Tamil uses pure Dravidian equivalents (e.g.  
tuuymai for suddam < suddha).  Sanskrit syntax has been deeply  
influenced by Dravidian -- and this is even more true of spoken  
Sanskrit (bhavaan aagamisyati vaa, where the vaa replicates the  
Dravidian interrogative -aa).  This no doubt made it easier for her to  
understand.  The Sanskrit used by the pandits had, in my estimation,  
very little in common with the language of the person from the  
Sanskrit village.  They used the language sensitively, creatively, and  
with a full knowledge of all its forms.  I remember once being taken  
to task for using too many bhaave constructions, a convenient  
workaround that, of course, enables one to avoid remembering all the  
various verb conjugations.  It is certainly true that there are many  
like yourself who are well-versed in Sanskrit even today.  A Tamil  
gentleman living in the Bay Area recently presented me with a  
composition -- quite well done -- he had written in Sanskrit on the  
Titanic.  He had truly mastered the language.  George Hart
On Aug 11, 2008, at 7:27 AM, Rasik Vihari Joshi Tripathi wrote:
