From asko.parpola at HELSINKI.FI  Fri Oct  1 13:01:21 2010
From: asko.parpola at HELSINKI.FI (Asko Parpola)
Date: Fri, 01 Oct 10 16:01:21 +0300
Subject: New volume of the Corpus of Indus Seals and Inscriptions
Message-ID: <161227090341.23782.14390057696450878882.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

The Corpus of Indus Seals and Inscriptions (CISI) has as its purpose  
to make available for research, in as good photographs as possible,  
all available seals and inscriptions relating to the Indus  
Civilization, including its Early Harappan and Late Harappan phases of  
development. This material is fundamental for the research of the  
poorly understood script, language, and religion of the Indus  
Civilization, and  a major outlet for its art. The seals and other  
types of inscribed artefacts are also important for the study of the  
Harappan social, political and economic organization, including  
administrative practices, external cultural contacts, internal trade  
and various techniques, such as seal carving. The Indus Civilization  
flourished in Pakistan and Northwestern India, and its Mature phase is  
date to 2600-1900 BCE.

The CISI is published by the Finnish Academy of Sciences and Letters,  
with the financial assistance of UNESCO on the recommendation of the  
International Council for Philosophy and Humanistic Studies, and in  
collaboration with the Archaeological Survey of India, the Department  
of Archaeology and Museums, Government of Pakistan, as well as  
numerous excavation projects and museums.

Released in June 2010:

Volume 3: New material, untraced objects, and collections outside  
India and Pakistan, edited by Asko Parpola, B. M. Pande and Petteri  
Koskikallio. Part 1: Mohenjo-daro and Harappa, in collaboration with  
Richard H. Meadow and J. Mark Kenoyer. (Annales Academiae Scientiarum  
Fennicae, Humaniora 359 & Memoirs of the Archaeological Survey of  
India, No. 96.) Helsinki: Suomalainen Tiedeakatemia, 2010. 4:o (30 x  
21 cm) Lx, 444 pp., with 3761 b/w and 125 colour photographs, 154 line  
drawings and 2 tables. Hardbound 295 ?. ISBN 978-951-41-1040-5.

Still available:

Volume 1: Collections in India, edited by Jagat Pati Joshi and Asko  
Parpola. (Annales Academiae Scientiarum Fennicae, Series B 239 &  
Memoirs of the Archaeological Survey of India, No. 86). Helsinki:  
Suomalainen Tiedeakatemia, 1987. 4:o (30 x 21 cm) xxxii, 392 pp., with  
c. 3900 b/w and 35 colour photographs. one table and a map. Hardbound  
195 ?. ISBN 951-41-0555-9.

Volume 2: Collections in Pakistan, edited by Sayid Ghulam Mustafa Shah  
and Asko Parpola. (Annales Academiae Scientiarum Fennicae, Series B  
240 & Memoirs of the Department of Archaeology and Museums, Government  
of Pakistan, 5.)  Helsinki: Suomalainen Tiedeakatemia, 1991. 4:o (30 x  
21 cm) xxxii, 448 pp., with 5417 b/w and 36 colour photographs, two  
tables and a map. Hardbound 195 ?. ISBN 951-41-0556-7.

Special offer: Volumes 1, 2 and 3.1 bought together 595 ?.

Distributor: Bookstore Tiedekirja, Kirkkokatu 14, FI-00170 Helsinki,  
Finland. Telephone +358-9-635 177, Fax +358-9-635 017, e-mail:  
tiedekirja at tsv.fi
Webstore: www.tiedekirja.fi




