    From curds came khada(perhaps resembling the khadi of the present)
by acidification with kapittha (the wood apple fruit) and changeri (the
Indian sorrel leaf, amrul in Hindi, Oxalis corniculata), followed by
seasoning with pepper and jeera. The same product with oil, sesame seeds
and urad pulse added to it was termed kambalika by Sushrutha.

11. Page  93
    Finally let us listen as Annaji, writing about 1600 in Kannada,
describes a domestic meal:
......
He also describes the following scene in a sweetmeat shop, listing by
name several items:

For those who cannot command these delicacies at home the sweetmeat
shopoffers a variety of delights. there is karrajjige, a sweet made from
maida flour; athirasa fried in ghee, urad based vadai; idlis as fair as
the moon; sweet sesame balls....

12. page 104
    Utensils of the Vedic Sacrifice

akaraphalika: snake shaped board, one arm long, on which sesame seeds
are offered in the sacrifice.

13. Page 140
    A century ago, the everyday foods of Bihar were meticulously
recorded in considerable detail by a British official. Tilauri were
balls of urad or mung with sesame seed, dried in the sun and deep
fried...

(Reference - G.A. Grierson, Bihar Peasant Life (2nd edition 1885),
Governement Printing Press, Bihar and Orissa, Patna 1926, p345.

14. page 142
    Ktesias (416 -398 BC), court physician and historian based his
Indika on his talks with Persian official who had themselves visited
India, and with seven Indians, including 2 women, whom he had met at the
Persian court of Susa. Both coconut and sesame oil were in
use.(Reference - J.W.McCrindle, Ancient India as described by Ktesias
the Kuidian (1882), Manohar reprints, Delhi, repr, 1976, pp 16, 21, 23,
30, 70.

15. page 144
    Strabo of Ameseia(65 BC - 25 AD) wrote his famous
Geography.....During the rainy season, .... flax millet and sesamum were
sown.


Please note all 16 points are taken from the book by K.T. Achaya
mentioned in the begining. I have given relevant quotes from this book.
I have not actually checked the references quoted therein - you may wish
to do so.

Good Luck!!

Asha



______________________________________________________
Get Your Private, Free Email at http://www.hotmail.com




