From jai at FLEX.COM  Mon Dec 20 07:17:32 1999
From: jai at FLEX.COM (Dr. Jai Maharaj)
Date: Sun, 19 Dec 99 21:17:32 -1000
Subject: astronomy
Message-ID: <161227054561.23782.2895053846654894816.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

Namaste

"In 1853, the savant known as Erard-Mollien read before
the Institute of France a paper proving the antiquity of
the Indian Zodiac, in the signs of which were found the
root and philosophy of all the most important religious
festivals of that country; the scholar demonstrated that
the origin of these religious ceremonies goes back into
the night of time to at least 3,000 BCE.  The Zodiac of
the Hindus, he demonstrated, was long anterior to the
Zodiac of the Greeks, and differed from it much in some
particulars.  In it one sees the Dragon on a tree, at the
foot of which the Virgin, Kanya-Durga, one of the most
ancient Goddesses, is placed on a Lion dragging after it
the solar vehicle, the Rath.  He said: "'This is the
reason why this Virgin Durga is not the simple momento of
an astronomical fact, but verily the most ancient
divinity of the Indian Olympus.  She is evidently the
same whose return was announced in all the Sibylline
books -- the source of the inspiration of Virgil -- an
epoch of universal renovation. . . . And why, since the
months are still named after this Indian Zodiac, by the
Sanskrit-speaking people of India, should that people
have abandoned it to take that of the Greeks? Everything
proves, on the contrary, that these zodiacal figures were
transmitted to the Greeks by the Chaldeans who got them
from the Brahmins of India.'" [3]

 - "The Secret Doctrine" by H. P. Blavatsky.  See Recueil
de l' Acade'mie des Inscriptions, 1853, quoted in Des
Esprits, Tome iv, page 62.  See also:  Histoire
l'Astronomie Anciene by J.B.J. Delambre, 1817 Historical
View of Hindu Astronomy by John Bentley, 1825.

Jai Maharaj
jai at mantra.com
Om Shanti




