From troyoga at YAHOO.COM  Thu Feb  8 08:19:08 2001
From: troyoga at YAHOO.COM (Ven. Tantra)
Date: Thu, 08 Feb 01 00:19:08 -0800
Subject: cakravartin's cremation
Message-ID: <161227067187.23782.3793365969962406069.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

Reviewing my point about the <<iron skillets>> ?
?iron? can only be implied here, as the Pali ayasa,
generally ?made of iron,? may also (if supported by
Sanskrit) mean, ?made of gold.?

Apart from that, the bit about the body being
<<_doubly enclosed_ in iron skillets>> has elsewhere
been rendered as ?they place the body in an iron vat,
_and cover it with an iron lid_.?

And so I think Steven Hodge has got it right in
suggesting that <<The probable result would be
complete carbonization as with charcoal with some
calcinations.>> Another poster has privately mentioned
that the notion of such an elaborate ?baking? ? the
sheer expense of which seems misplaced for a Buddha ?
might only make sense if he were planned to be eaten!
A thought worth pondering. In any case, such iron
containers could hardly have been <<hermetically
sealed>>, as considered by Steven. Even modern
household pressure-cookers need to let off steam.

Moving on, as relates to the cremation of the Buddha?s
body, the Mahaparinibbana text states:

?Just as in the burning of ghee or oil, where no
residual cinder or ash remains; so with in the burning
of Bhagvan?s body. No residual cinder or ash of the
outer skin, inner skin, flesh, tendons, or oil of the
joints was discerned. Only bone-relics remained. And
as for the 500 twin-wrappings of linen and teased
cotton wool, all were consumed _except the innermost
and the outermost_.?

S. Hodge also wrote: <<However it is questionable
whether the Buddha was cremated in that manner since
the traditional account of the allocation and
distribution of the Buddha's remains seems to talk of
handfuls of ashes although some substantial pieces of
bone and teeth would have remained.>>

It is in fact very questionable whether the legendary
Buddha is anything more than a composite mythological
character [a subject worth delving now]. But YES, as
you say, the _authors of the text_ do indeed relate
that ?the relics were divided into eight potions. All
the relics were divided and shared, nothing remained.
The eight portions were honored by stupas: Seven in
Jambudipa, and one in Ramagama by kings of the Naga
race.? Two teeth are also mentioned: ?One honored in
the Tavatimsa heaven, one in the realm of Kalinga...
Thus were there eight burial mounds for the
bone-relics, a ninth for the urn, and a tenth for the
embers...?

<<In modern crematoria, whether gas, oil or electric,
in the West, it takes about 45 mins to cremate the
body and coffin but even then large pieces of bone are
left over.  These are then collected and put into a
smaller retort / cylinder where they are subjected to
30 mins or so at a higher temperature to reduce them
still further. There are still largish peices of bone
left... >>

Correct. And these largish pieces in turn get
pulverized into the final product, which is often
misconstrued as ?the ashes,? not to be mistaken for a
summer test cricket series.

Innit.

Ven. Tantra




















__________________________________________________
Do You Yahoo!?
Get personalized email addresses from Yahoo! Mail - only $35
a year!  http://personal.mail.yahoo.com/




