From troyoga at YAHOO.COM  Wed Feb  7 07:35:25 2001
From: troyoga at YAHOO.COM (Ven. Tantra)
Date: Tue, 06 Feb 01 23:35:25 -0800
Subject: =?utf-8?Q?cakravartin=EF=BF=BDs_cremation?=
Message-ID: <161227067133.23782.3766434105582910997.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

In _Mahaparinibbana Sutta_, Ananda, Gautama?s cousin
and personal attendant, inquires of his guru
concerning how to cremate the body of a Tathaagata
(Buddha?). Gautama responds saying that it ought to be
handled just as with the body of a deceased
cakravartin (universal ruler), that is,

?It is first wrapped round with new linen, and then
with teased cotton wool; up to five hundred layers of
linen and five hundred layers of cotton wool. When
that is done, the body is placed in an iron oil
vessel, which is enclosed in another iron vessel. Then
the body is burned on a funeral pyre built of all
kinds of perfumed woods.?

I am curious as to the effect this recipe would have
on the body. Having next to no knowledge of Vedic
crematory science, I get the impression that this is
more like baking than reducing the body to ashes.
Assuming the body, doubly enclosed in iron skillets,
would not be directly touched by flames, would not the
abundant mummy wraps function to absorb all the liquid
and fat that the cadaver would exude when brought to
extreme temperatures?

VT

























__________________________________________________
Do You Yahoo!?
Yahoo! Auctions - Buy the things you want at great prices.
http://auctions.yahoo.com/




