From drdhaval2785 at gmail.com  Tue Aug 21 09:09:46 2018
From: drdhaval2785 at gmail.com (Dhaval Patel)
Date: Tue, 21 Aug 18 14:39:46 +0530
Subject: [INDOLOGY] Narratives of WSC forum from different perspectives
Message-ID: <CADSGPzXF91FnevHksb88-CF-r4xMTvGdM6ZYAvzezaTzwSU07w@mail.gmail.com>

Dear all,
Regarding what has been brought to our notice in indology list by Dr.
Vajpeyi and others, there is a discussion of the same incidence happening
in another forum i.e. Bharatiyavidvatparishat. The issue involved is indeed
very important for any scholarly fraternity.

As I am a member in Indology list and also in Bharatiyavidvatparishat, I
feel it necessary to draw attention of the members of this list, WSC local
organizing committee, IASS towards two alternative versions of eye
witnesses of the same event which differ from the version mentioned on this
list. They are from (1) Prof. Shivani V, and (2) Mr. Jayaraman.

I cannot say anything on the authenticity or otherwise of any of these
versions or that of Dr. Vajpeyi, as I have not attended the event.

1. The authorities may like to respond to these two alternative
perspectives.

2. May I request the organizers to make the video footage of the event
available to the scholarly community so that everyone who did not attend
the event can analyse and draw their own conclusions about the event.
Pratyaksha is treated as the best proof by most philosophies and sciences.


NARRATIVE 1
QUOTE Shivani V.

Respected Scholars,

The conversations in e-lists regarding the WSC - 2018 public forum ?Our
Sanskrit -?The Gender and Caste in Sanskrit Studies? which as described was
to depict the current position of Sanskrit studies and the journey of
panelists through the Sanskrit texts and pedagogy, prompted me to respond
to the mails by WSC chair, IASS Secretary and Dr Ananya Vajpayee, one of
the panalists.

I expected a scholastic discourse while attending the public forum. The
forum opened with Dr Adheesh Sathaye's remarks that it was arranged to hear
the unheard voices and unshared experiences of three women scholars of
Samskrit. Being a lady faculty of a University in southern India and
working in Sanskrit Fraternity for last two decades, I was curious to
listen to the panelists.

The first speaker, Prof Mandakranta Bose started the debate placing some
questions to other two panelists by quoting the Ramayana and the
Manusmriti. Dr. Kaushal Panwar who was the first to respond, said nothing
which answered the questions raised nor made any new observation. Instead
of addressing the questions, she started reading some passages from the
pages that she had brought. Her quotes from Smritis and the Vedas were not
read/pronounced properly, which reflected her level of understanding of
Sanskrit. Her uninteresting and non-scholastic presentation tested the
patience of the audience and yet audience were silent. Her speech was
purely political with baseless arguments against some caste and gender.
Further, Dr Ananya Vajpayee, with her sophisticated style, presented  her
own understanding of Indian history.  It is to be noted that neither of the
said panelists really share their personal experiences of learning Sanskrit
- which was the supposed aim of the public forum (note public forum
description). The forum had started late and it was not made clear to the
audience what duration was allotted for any interaction.

When the forum was about to close without the Q&A opportunity to the
audience and Dr. Panwar raged on about one particular community, some
students asked to be allowed some time for interaction. The organiser
allowed 15 minutes for clearing questions from the audience. Then a few
internationally reputed scholars like Prof. Aravind Sharma, Shri Chamu
Krishna Shastry, Prof Manoj Kumar Mishra, Dr Madhu etc. politely raised
questions related to the arguments the panelists had made. It is to be
noted that, they were not at all taken up for answering. When 3-4 points
were made by the scholars in the audience, barely one was even answered by
the panelists. Again, point to be noted here that the video recording,
which had been proceeding through the panel discussion, was switched off as
soon as questions were raised by the audience.


I requested to be allowed to share my experience. I shared my experience of
Sanskrit Studies being in Sanskrit Fraternity in Kerala, in Andhrapradesh
and in Karnataka where currently I am working as a faculty member in a
Samskrit University. Most of my teachers, my friends even my students and
my colleagues belonged to upper caste.  I also shared about my background
where none in my family had any introduction to Sanskrit and neither had I,
before I chose to enter this field. While the panelists  badmouthed a
particular caste, I pointed out that my good experience of learning
Sanskrit is as real as their claimed bad experience and they cannot negate
what I had to add to the exchange. Also, Dr. Anuradha Choudhury added,
(very politely and non-aggressively, I might add) that a non-scholarly
panel discussion of this sort where subjective experiences are being shared
would be better off having a more representative participation across the
spectrum of opinions. I observe that none of these valid and just arguments
that were placed in the forum find any mention in Dr. Vajpeyi's article.
All the talk of sympathy for women in the field by the said panelists is
mere lip-service if they do not even acknowledge the other voices in the
alleged "Open" forum.

Dr Kaushal Panwar objected with loud voice the use of the term ?harijan?
which was mentioned by one of the audience. Though he clarified the term
harijan was used in the sense of Gandhi?s usage, the same issue was
discussed to deviate the debate. The scholars in the audience were forced
to ask questions loudly as mike was not provided to most of them. Before
closing the session, Dr Kaushal and Dr Mandakranta shouted at the scholars
and escaped from the stage as they could not face the scholastic questions.

Coming to the post forum explanations by Dr Atheesh Sathay and Prof.
Jayendra Soni ji, IASS Secretary, I do not agree with their words which
describe the audience of the forum were uncivilised, hooligans,
disrespectful, and non-academic. While reading Prof Jayendra Sony?s
statement ?Both in this Public Forum and at some academic panels at this
recent WSC in Vancouver, a number of disrespectful and inappropriate
exchanges and statements were made. Invited guests and presenters were
interrupted, shouted at, demeaned, and intimidated ??? Among the audience,
the president of IASS, Prof Kutumba Shastry was also present and shared his
views. Renowned scholars such as Prof Ashok Aklujkar, Prof Aravind Sharma
and many others were present and many of them shared their views. Whether
the statement of Prof Sony applies to these scholars? if not he has to
specify who has interrupted, shouted, demeaned and intimidated the
presenters and invited guests. I request the IASS board to make the video
of the forum pubic (which may reveal the truth).

In the whole program, there was not one 'personal' experience that was
narrated, not one solution offered to any problems they saw in our
tradition, not one positive word uttered about 'their' Samskrit that has
given them the life that they are leading. Sanskrit was reduced to a
straw-man that has purushasukta and Manu "smarati" and was beaten to a pulp
even as the mike-less audience was forced to look-on.

My additions in response to what Ananya has written

If the three scholars present there did not speak in an autobiographic
vein, what were they there to do? The so-called open forum was supposed to
share their subjective experiences - which cannot be, by any stretch of
imagination, an academic exercise. If they were supposed to share their
readings of the texts, why was it not open for debate like the other papers
were? Any questions regarding this is being labelled as trolling.

"The ill-fated forum at the WSC was just an instance of a disciplinary
malaise that has, alas, gone metastatic."
Ill-fated, malaise, metastasis - the three words I also would use to
describe that particular forum: Ill-fated, because the other
representatives, who were forced to listen to unabashed abuse of the
tradition, were not even given a proper chance to voice their opinions in
what was ironically called an "Open Forum". Malaise, because there is not
an ounce of positive thought that emerged from the "discussion" made by the
"scholars" on the stage and the positive experiences that were attempted to
be shared by the non-brahmin women in the audience fell on completely deaf
ears. Metastasis because of the situation wrought by continual repetition
of the cooked-up "Drain Inspector's Report" of the world of Sanskrit.

I wholeheartedly repeat Dr. Vajpeyi's words "It's time to stand up to the
trolls, bigots, misogynists and other rogue elements in our midst; time to
stand up for our colleagues who have borne the brunt of harassment,
intimidation, bullying and motivated misrepresentation." - with a small
modification, though - the first part refers to those who were on the stage
and the second to the muted audience.

While I do not deny any bad experiences that Dr. Panwar might have had in
her life, I also ask her to remember the members of the very same community
she is abusing, who might have led her up to the position she is in now. I
also emphatically demand that my (and the experiences of several others
like me) not be negated by continuing to badmouth a particular community.
Many Ananyas are living using the past, many Kaushals are becoming victims.
How long have we to in the past! We have to draw whatever is positive from
the past and live in the present. I request Dr Vajpeyi  and such modern
writers, to remove the Kailasa mountains from their minds and enjoy the
beauty of the world and let the Kaushals also enjoy it.

???????????? ? ???? ????? ? ???? ?????? ???????????????
????: ?????????????????????? ???: ??????????????????:?

?Everything is not good because it is just ancient. And the poems need not
be bad because it is new. Wise examine both and decide which is good or
bad. Only a fool will be blindly led by what others say.?

With best regards

UNQUOTE



NARRATIVE 2

QUOTE Mr. Jayaraman

??? ?????????



???????????????????? ????????????????? ????????? ????????????
????????? *hooliganistic
behaviour* ????????? ??? ?????????? ????????? ??????????? ?????? ????????
???????? ?? ???????????? ??????????? ???????? (
https://groups.google.com/forum/#!searchin/bvparishat/hooliganism%7Csort:date/bvparishat/QH0IpCzVFbU/HurcH6fSDgAJ)
- Words of Mr.Adheesh Sathey - "*I found the hooliganistic behaviour of
some members of the audience to have been shocking, inexcusable, and deeply
disturbing.*"



?????? ?????? ?????????? ???? ????????? ??????? ????????? Hooliganistic
Behaviour ?????????????????? ????? ?????? ??? ??????????? ??????
???????????????????????? *?? ??????????? *??? ??????? *??????? ?????
???????? ????? ??? ???? ???????????? ????? ???????????? ??? ????? ??????
????????? ??????????  *



"??????-?????????" ??? ????????? ????????? ???? ???????? ? ??????? ??????

? ???? ???????? ???????? ???????????? ????????? ?????! ?????? ????????????!



*????????? ????*



??????? - ?????????? ??????????- ???? ???????????? ???????????????? ??????  ???
??????? ? ?????????? ?????

??? ??????? ???? ??? ??????????? ??????????????? ?????? ???????????????? ?
???????? ????? ??? ??????? ???????? ??????? ?????????? ??? ????????????????
????????? ??????????



?????? ??????? - ?????????? ????????? ???????????????? ? ???????????? ?????
????????? ???????????? ?????? ?????? ???? ??????? ???? ???????????
?????????????? ?? ??????????????? ??? ??????? ??????? ????????????
????????? ?????????? ???? ?????? ????? ??? ??? ?????? ??? ??????????
??????????

????? ???? ???????? ????????? ????????



*??????? ???????????*

???????????? ????????? ???????????????? ??????????????? ???????????
???????? ???????? ????? ??????????????????? ?????? ???????? ? ??????????
??? ????? ?????? ????? ?? ?????? (?????? ????  "spirit of equanimity" ?????
??? ??? ?? ?????????? ??????)  ??? ??????? ?????? ???????? ?????????
???????? ??? ??????????????? ???? ?????? ???????? ?????????? ??????? *???????
?????? ???????? ???????* *???????????? ????????? ???????* ? ??????
??????????, ? ?????? ?????? ???????? ????? ??????????? ?????? ???????? ???
???????? ???????, ?????????? ????????? ???????????????? ???????? ??????????
???????? ????? ???? ??????? ????? ???? ?????? ?????? ????? ? ????,
????????????? ????? ? ????? ? ??????? ???? ?????? ?? ?????? ??????
(???????? ??? ???????? ??????? ???????????, ????? ?? ????? ?? ??)



????? ??? Hooliganistic behaviour ??? ??? ???? ??????????? ??????? ?????
????????? ??? *??????? ?????????? *?????? ???? ???????? ?????????? ?
???? ? ??????
??????????? ????? ?????????? ??????? ???? ???? Hooliganistic behaviour ???
??????????? *???????? ?????????? ??????????? ???????? ??? ???????
??????????* ??????? ???????????? ???  Hooliganistic behaviour ????? ?????
????? ???????? Hooliganistic behaviour ??? ????? ????????? ??? ????
??????????????



?????? ????????? ????????? ?? ????????? ???? ?? ?????? ????? ????? ??? ?
????????, ??????????, ?????????? ????????? ????????????? ???????? ?????
?????? ????????? ???????????? ?????????? ????? ?????????????? ???
??????? ??????????????
Hooliganism ????????????????, ????????? ?????? ?



?????? ?? ?????? ??????? ?????? ?????? ???????????????? ?????????? ?????
?????? ???? ????????? ?????? ? ?????????? (??????????? ???? ????? ??????
??? ??????? ? ?????????) -



*????????????** ??????????? ???????????????????????????????? ???????????
??? ????? *????  ????????? ?????????? ???????? ???? ??????????? ??????? ???
??????-????????? ?????? ??????? - ???? ? ????? ??? ???????? ?????
???????????????? ???????? ?????????? ???????? ????? ?????? ???????? ??????
????? ???? ???? ????????  ???? ???? ? ????????? ???? ????????? ??? "????
?????? ? ????" ??? ???? ???????? ??????? ???????? ???? ?????? ??? ???
???????? ????? ??????? ?????????? ?????? ???????????? ??? ??????? ????
???????? ????



*????? ? ????????????? ??????????????????????? ????? ???????  ?????? ?????
??? - *?????????? ???????????????? ? ???????? ????????? *???????? ?????????
*??? ????????? ???????? ?????????? ???? ??????? ?????????? ?  ?????
????????? ? ???? ??????? ??????? ??????????????????? ????? ,
?????????????????????
??????????????????? *?????????????????? *????????? ???? ????????? ????????
?????????? ????????? ???? ?????????? ?????????? ?????? ?????? ??? ???????
?????? ?????? ?????????

?????? ?????? ????? ???????? ????????? ??????? , ??????? ?? ????????????
????? ???-?????????????? ??????? ?????? ??????? ????? ??? - ?????? ??????
?????? ??????????????? ???? ??????????? ? ?? ??????????? (??? ??????? ???
????????????????  ????????  ? ????????? ??? ???????? ??????????????? ????
???? ????????????? ??? ???????????? ??? ????????????? ????? ?????????
??????? ?????????????????????? ??????? ??????????? ????????? ???? ?????????
??????????? ??????????????????????????? ??? ????????????????????? )



*?????**, ????????????? ?????? ????????????? ?? *? ??????????
?????????????? ??????????????????? ?? ????? ??? - ??? ?????? ?????
????????????????? ? ???? ?????????, ?????? ? ????? ??????????? ??? ? ?????
?????????????? ???????????????????? ?????? ?  ????????  ???????? ?????????
??????????????? ?????? ????



*?????**, ????, ??????? ????????????????? ???? ?????????? ?????????????? *?????
??? - ????? ?????? ?????? ??? ???????? ???? ???????? ?????????? ????? ?????
???? ?? ????? ????? ??????? ?? ??? ?????????? ?????????????? ??? ???????
?????? ????????? ???? ???????????? ??? ????????????? ? ? ??????? ???????
????? ????????????



????? ????? ????????????????? ????????? ??????(???????)-????????? - ????
???????????????????? ?? ??????? ? ????? ??????? ?????? ???????? ??? ????
?????? ?????????? ? ??? ? ??? ?? ???????, ?? ??????? ?? ?????????????? ????

 ????????? ?????????? ??????? ??????? ???????? ???? ????????????????????
??????????????? ???????? ???????? ?????????? ??? ????? ???
?????????????????  ?????? ???????? ???????? ?? ??????? ??????? ??? ? ????
???? -  "?????????? *????????????? *??????????????? ??" ???????????????????
???? ??????????? ???????? ????????? ????????? *???????????????? *???
?????????? ???????, ????????? ?????? ??? ????? ?????? ??? ?????????? ??????
???????? ?????????? ????????  (?????? ???? ????????? ?????????????
??????????? ?? ??????? ??? ?? ???????)?



????? ?????? ???? ??????? ????????? ????? ?????? ????? ? ?????? ?? ???????
???? ????????? ??????????? - ??? ??? ?????? ????????????? ?????????? ???
??????? ???????????????????????? ????? ??? ??????????? ????? ??????? ?????
?????????????, ? ?? ???????????????????? ?????????



????? ??????? ???? ?????? ?????????????? ??????????????????????????????
?????????? ???????? ?????????????????? ????????, ???? ? ?????? ???????
????? ????? ???????? ?????????????? ??????? ???????? ??????????
?????????????????????? ????????? ???????

??????????? ??????? ??????? ?????????? ???????????, ???????????
????????????? ???????? ?????? ????????? ???????????? ????? ????????? ???
?????????????

????? ????????????, ????????????, ????????????????? ??????? ???????? ??????
???????? ????? ??????? ??????????? ? ??? ????????? ????????



*????????*



?????????? ?????????????? ????? ??????????????????? ???????????????
????????????????? ?????????????? ?????? ???????????, ??????? ????????????
?????????, ????????? ????????, ????? ????????? ?  ???????????? ??????????
????????? ????? ???????  ?????? ??????? ????????? ?????????? ? ??????? ???
?????? ?????? ????????????????  ???? ??????? ?????? ????????? ? ??????
?????????????? ??????? ???????? ??????



????? ????????? Hooliganism ??? ????????????? ?????????????? ?????, ???
???????? ?????????? ??????????? ??????? ??????? ???????? ?????? ????????? |
??? ?? ?????? ???????????????? ??? ???????? ????? ??????????????? ?????
???? ????  ?????????????????



??????? ??????
UNQUOTE


-- 
Dr. Dhaval Patel


-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20180821/8c1d476b/attachment.htm>

