[INDOLOGY] Request for commentaries on YS
Dear David,
In your mail to the Indology list at 2 September you referred to the
?nand??rama Series edition of the *P?ta?jalayoga??stra* (i.e., the
Yogas?tra together with the so-called Yogabh??ya) by K???n?tha ??str? ?g??e
as being ?in effect a critical edition?, since it is based on twelve
manuscripts, giving variant readings in footnotes. I fully agree with you
that this edition is useful since it presents a fairly intelligible
Sanskrit text and some variants from manuscripts and printed editions in
footnotes. But the edition is still is not a critical edition in the modern
academic usage of the term ?critical edition?. K???n?tha ??str? ?g??e did
not explain the method he used to generate the main text of his edition,
and he was apparently completely unaware of the fact that the different
text versions transmitted in the four manuscript and four printed edition
that he used for the PY? are the result of changes that occurred during the
history of the transmission of the PY? in writing. For a more comprehensive
characterization of this edition, see the introduction to my critical
edition of the Sam?dhip?da of the PY? (Maas 2006
<https://www.academia.edu/210280/Sam%C4%81dhip%C4%81da_Das_erste_Kapitel_des_P%C4%81ta%C3%B1jalayoga%C5%9B%C4%81stra_zum_ersten_Mal_kritisch_ediert._The_First_Chapter_of_the_P%C4%81ta%C3%B1jalayoga%C5%9B%C4%81stra_for_the_First_Time_Critically_Edited>,
to which you kindly referred) on p. xxiii? xxiv. In any case, all
manuscripts and printed editions at  ?g??e's  disposal transmit a fairly
similar text, i.e. the vulgate version of the PY?. Not a single witness
used by ?g??e transmits the "Southern Version" of the PY? which frequenlty
has a better text quality than the vulgate (see see my article ?On the
written transmission of the P?ta?jalayoga??stra? here
<https://www.academia.edu/212613/On_the_Written_Transmission_of_the_P%C4%81ta%C3%B1jalayoga%C5%9B%C4%81stra>
).
The edition of the PY? by Vimala Kanartaka (1992, No. 21 in Maas 2006) that
you mention, is also not a critical edition in any technical sense of the
word. The main text in Karnataka?s edition is virtually a reproduction of
the main text in the edition by N?r?ya?ami?ra (Varanasi 1971, no. 15. in
Maas 2006) with only 11 deviation in the first chapter. As a comparison of
the variant reading that Kanartaka reported in the footnotes of her edition
with the original witnesses shows, her apparatus is not very reliable (see
Maas 2006: xxxi f.).
With best wishes,
Philipp
Dr. Philipp A. Maas
Research Associate
Institut f?r Indologie und Zentralasienwissenschaften
Universit?t Leipzig
https://spp1448.academia.edu/PhilippMaas
Am So., 2. Sep. 2018 um 21:01 Uhr schrieb David and Nancy Reigle via
INDOLOGY <indology at list.indology.info>:
