>From the first half of 2019, the Chair of History and Philosophy of
Mathematical Sciences at ETH Zurich, is offering a Post-Doc/Doctoral
Student position for the ?*History of* *vernacular Mathematics in medieval
South India*? project

The candidate will research Malayalam mathematical manuscripts reflecting
mathematical practice in late Medieval Kerala for up to four years. The
scope of the project ranges from elementary and practical mathematics to
the work of the Kerala School of mathematical astronomy. The research
involves analyzing the texts in the contexts of their practical-historical
setting and producing editions and research papers. It will be conducted in
the framework of the chair for the History and Philosophy of Mathematical
Sciences at the ETH and in cooperation with scholars in India.

The successful candidate must have a very high level of literacy in
Malayalam, including older forms of Malayalam, as well as academic training
in history, mathematics, and/or Malayalam literature/linguistics. Fluency
in spoken English and proficiency in written English is also a requirement.
Training or proficiency in any of the following is an advantage: Sanskrit,
Tamil, history of mathematics/astronomy, history of medieval/pre-colonial
south India, Dravidian linguistics. Post-doctoral candidates are preferred,
but if no excellent post-doctoral candidates are found, candidates for
doctoral studies will also be considered. The salary will be paid according
to ETH standards.

We look forward to receiving your online application including a CV and
one-page letter of motivation describing your background, training, and
interest in the project until November 15, 2018. Early applications are
encouraged. Further materials (publications, reference letters, etc.) may
be requested later. Please note that we exclusively accept applications
submitted through our online application portal. Applications via email or
postal services will not be considered.

For further information about the the Chair of History and Philosophy of
Mathematical Sciences, please visit our website
www.hpm.ethz.ch/the-group.html. Questions regarding the position should be
directed to Prof. Roy Wagner by email roy.wagner at gess.ethz.ch (no
applications).

Apply now


-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20181004/1843cad3/attachment.htm>

