=?utf-8?Q?Re:_[INDOLOGY]_sa=C5=9Bar=C4=ABra?=
Dear all,
Dr. Goldman's great insights into the subtleties behind the failure of
someone's bodily (or otherwise embodied...) entrance into heaven open up
the conversation into a very interesting web of compositional and reception
histories of the ?amb?ka story.  Indeed, the reexamination of the ?amb?ka
story has been mobilized in many different ways by many different
communities throughout the millennia.  For example, some Jain (and some
vernacular non-Jain) *R?m?ya?a* poets relocate the responsibility of
?amb?ka's death onto Lak?ma?a, thereby absolving R?ma of that violence.
Scores of medieval Hindu poets (generally on the model of K?lid?sa and
Bhavabh?ti) portray ?amb?ka to immediately attain his heavenly aims due to
his contact with R?ma, who shows pity on ?amb?ka despite his kingly
obligation to carry out the execution -- I might even argue that this
rehabilitates R?ma's portrayal after *V?lm?ki* as much as it does
?amb?ka's.  More recently, several Dalit and Non-Brahmin activists,
authors, and playwrights have equated ?amb?ka's practice of *tapas *and his
subsequent punishment for it with Dalit and Non-Brahmins' struggles in
pursuit of an education.
Of course, much of this is very nicely synthesized in none other than Dr.
Goldman and Dr. Sutherland Goldman's introduction to the *Uttarak???a.
*Additionally,
my dissertation is on the developmental history of the ?amb?ka story from
the *V?lm?ki R?m?ya?a* through today and I'd be happy to share it with
anyone who might be interested.
With best wishes,
Aaron
On Tue, Dec 17, 2019 at 2:52 PM Robert Goldman <rpg at berkeley.edu> wrote:
