beef eating in the Veda
You are right--that Buddha' disciples ate whatever was placed in their
begging-bowl. On the other hand, the values implicit in the Buddhadharma
do lead inexorably to the conclusion that meat-eating must be given up.
The Bhikhus/Bhikshunis following rules of the primitive pratimoksha
consumed what might be regarded as a transgressive meal, were it not a
token of the freedom guaranteed by adherence to the Vinaya. Therefore,
non-attachment to what one ate and from what source it came represented a
'higher' viewpoint than that governed by the scrupulosity dictated by
ethical considerations. I suspect that some of the systematic
'transgression' practiced by tantric practices finds its point of origin
in this principle. Also, because the Buddhist ariyas of the early period
were actively involved in religious and disputational competition with the
followers of Kapila as well as others of the early schools, they
maintaining similar viewpoints relating to diet as part of their whole
viewpoint, the Buddhists could scarcely have not agreed with them in
principle, reserving disagreement for particulars. It is my belief, at all
events, that vegetarianism as a commonplace of general Indian orthodoxy,
brahmanical and non-brahmanical, spreadly widely as a result of the
competition for authority between these early groups,  but begun as a
necessary implication of ahimsa. 
meat.
by
the
suspect
altogether
fell
and
the
