source)  From here, the rationale for the same term ?nuval? for both thread
and text can be easily understood. (In CT, ?nuval? does not occur in the
sense of thead or text. But the presence of Hala Kannada word ?nugulu?,
Koraga word ?nuglu?, the well-known alternation of ?k? or ?g? and  ?v?
intervocalically in Dravidian, and the presence of ?nuval? as part of
?panuval? meaning cotton/cotton thread or text clearly shows that the orginal
form of the word should have been ?nuval?.)

?nuval? is a compound of ?nu? and ?val?. ?nu?  in the meaning of ?fine? or
?narrow? or ?sharp? occurs as a root in many Tamil words.  ?val? is a root in
words like ?vala? meaning ?to encircle, surround, spin as a spider its
thread, plait, weave, string in a series, tie, bind? and the word ?valai?
meaning ?net? and ?web? (See DED 4326). Thus ?nuval? is the fine web thread
spun by the spider. One can understand the aptness of using nuval in the case
of the web thread. But how can one explain the extended use of the word
?nuval? in the context of utterance, song, praise, sound of drums, sound of
cuckoo bird, texts, etc.? The answer lies in the arguments for the basic
semantic commonness of the words ?cilai?, ?cilampu? and ?cilampi? that we
discussed earlier. Given the fact, early texts were mostly oral texts, one
can see the semantic expansion from vocalization to songs, text, etc. That
the fine thread of the web is the source for the word for the text will also
explain the hackneyed description of texts as well as threads as being
'fine'. 

Any man-made thread is later than the thread of the spider web. In Dravidian,
cognates of ?nuval? occur in all the major groups. Compared to ?nuval?, the
word ?izai? has a much narrower distribution. The use of ?nuval? in the
context of spun cotton thread suggests to me the word could even pre-date
weaving or at least to proto-Dravidian stage. Even though, cognates of
?nuval? meaning ?song, text? occur only in South Dravidian, the references in
CT suggest that those usages go back considerably earlier.

I have a suspicion that there was probably some alternation or
alternation-cum- semantic specialization between l and L  in some Dravidian
roots (kil vs kiL) at the proto-Dravidian stage as suggested by the following
words.

kiLa - to express clearly, speak  		           cilai - to shout, sound
kiLappu - speech, utterance		                cilampu - sound
kiLampu - to shoot up, sprout, go out	      cilumpu - to flow out, gush out	
kiLappam - rising, swelling  		                cilanti - pimple, small boil

As a result of the retroflexion, one would expect the initial ?k? before ?i?
to be preserved in Tamil as noted by Dravidian linguists. (In fact, with
respect to entries in DEDR 2017b, DEDR says some Gondi, Konda, Pengo and Kui
words can be considered cognates of either kiLa or cilai.) Since the ?kiL-?
forms come directly from proto-Dravidian while ?cil-?  forms show
palatalization after the Tamil-Malayalam group separated from South
Dravidian. On the whole, the forms with ?kiL? seem to have a semantic range
similar to the semantic range of ?cil-? . This means ?cilampi? which occurs
in CT, probably dates from proto-Dravidian. In that case, it is possible that
?nuval? could also have the wide semantic range including spider?s thread and
oral compositions.

Coming to the Indo-Aryan (IA) side, the spider is conspicuously absent in
Sanskrit words related to ?sUtra? as shown by the Comparative Dictionary of
Indo-Aryan Languages (CDIAL). As for other IA languages, only Marathi has a
word ?suterA? meaning ?spider, the thread which it spins?. Since Marathi is
the Indo-Aryan lanaguage exhibiting a lot of Dravidian influence, the
influence of  the thread of spider?s web or ?net? in creating a word for text
seems to be a Dravidian feature and not Indo-Aryan. IA languages also do not
have 'sUtra' used in connection with animal sounds or musical instruments
like drums.Since, etymological statements across language families is ?an act
of faith? as Emeneau said, I defer to Indo-Europeanists to decide on the
history of usage of ?sUtra? on the IA side.

In conclusion, as far as Tamil/Dravidian is concerned, in spite of what
earlier grammarians said, the basic metaphor of a text is not ?weaving? by
humans using a loom, but the thread of the web (or net) woven by the spider.
 So is  it not a coincidence that after thousands of years, we are still
caught in the ?web?.

Regards.

S. Palaniappan






