Question on Patanjali (Kashmir and P's MB) and kApyas
	It seems most likely that patancala and patanjali are dialectal
variants as assumed by Palaniappan.  While strictly within Sanskrit, both
nc and nj can be found, these two combinations would probably suggest
different regional affiliations within the range of Prakrit.  The word
Patancala is probably of Northwestern Prakrit origin, both because of the
cluster nc, and the retention of an intervocalic -t-, the occurrence of
-l- would show a more complicated situation.  An -r- in its place would
have made it a more conclusively northwestern Prakrit word.  As the word
stands, it has linguistically mixed features.  The word Patanjali with its
-nj- would indicate a slightly easterly Prakrit, but its retention of the
intervocalic -t- makes it complicated.  I suspect that here we have
evidence of Brahmin dialects which constituted some sort of interlanguage
between Sanskrit and Prakrit, partially carrying features of both.  
Sanskrit being representative of a massive dialect mixture, the word could
be found anywhere in Sanskrit.  
	The evidence of Prakritic usages cited in the Mahaabhaa.sya needs
to be carefully evaluated for its regional affiliation.  At first glance,
the l-prominent usages helayo helayo ascribed to asuras, and the change of
.Rtaka to .Ltaka ascribed to the dialects of the Brahmin women seems to
point more in the direction of the region of Magadhi Prakrit.  However,
forms like aa.navayati cited by Patanjali, due to their retention of the
intervocalic -t-, again suggest an interlanguage between Sanskrit and
Prakrit.
		Madhav Deshpande
On Wed, 26 Mar 1997 Palaniappa at aol.com wrote:
