european musical instruments in India
As a long time violinist, and professional, I have to say that I am
unimpressed from a practical and acoustical standpoint at anyone's playing
the violin with the scroll held by the foot (feet). This remark is not
made in ignorance of the actual performing on Indian instruments--I
studied sarod and voice for a while with Ustad Ali Akbar Khan at the Ali 
Akbar College. Pandit Subramaniam, who I have had the happy opportunity to
experience in concert, is obviously well-trained in a Western style and
very able in every technical and musical way--the method of bowing always
tells the tale. For him, such a manner of playing represents an adaptation
of Western training to Indian performance ways. That is not true for many,
if not most of, Indian violinists. Indian-trained violinists tend to have
a wild and raspy wound, not vocal at all, and rather like home-grown
fiddlers everywhere, even if they are in a formidable possession of
musical knowledge. It is not really comfortable to play the violin sitting
down, if comfort were the determining factor--which in the case of Indian
violin-playing it is not. There is not a feeling of rightness with the
instrument that is the case with sarod, sitar, and probably srangi. I
cannot speak for the vina. I sense that Indian instrumental playing is
related to the lap as a center of weight and balance. The violin was not
designed with that orientation in mind. Pandit Subramanian, of course,
plays well and has adapted his exquisite musicianship to the tradional
requirements of Carnatic music....Max Langley
the
