Studies. "From now on, there will be two Indian flags in my consular
area," he declared.  "One at the Consulate in Manhattan, the other,
the flag of intellect, will fly at Stony Brook." He pledged full
support from the Consulate, including a 100-volume set of the
collected works of Mahatma Gandhi and help in offering courses on
current affairs in India.

The establishment Stony Brooks India Center, the first in the State
University system, has been hailed as an extraordinary accomplishment
considering the climate of severe cutbacks.  It is the fruit of a
two-year campaign by student activists, professors, and leaders of the
Indian community, who worked in concert with Stony Brooks President
Shirley Strum Kenny to transform a pipe dream into reality.

The Center, located in the heart of the Stony Brook campus, has a
library, reading room, multimedia lab, research and publications unit,
and a development office.  It aims to promote a better understanding
of India by creating opportunities and resources for studying India.
Its goals include teaching credit and non-credit courses, sponsoring
research, visiting professorships, study abroad and community outreach
programs. It is funded by the university and the community
together. Student volunteers take turns staffing the Center.  The
Center's current projects include editing a survey of Indian
civilization for the general reader, and a brochure documenting
highlights of Indias Freedom Revolution, both sponsored by the
Association of Indians in America.

"It has given the 600+ Indian undergraduate students a focus, pride,
and an identity. It will benefit students years from now.  I feel
proud, knowing that I helped lay the foundations for it," says Seema
Pradhan, a junior who plans to study medicine.

Professor S.N. Sridhar, Director of the Center for India Studies,
described the beginnings: Students demanded courses on India, and the
faculty and the Indian American community worked with President
