From DKumar6248 at aol.com  Fri Aug 29 07:52:45 1997
From: DKumar6248 at aol.com (DKumar6248 at aol.com)
Date: Fri, 29 Aug 97 03:52:45 -0400
Subject: Dravidian Cryptography; onomatopoeic:
Message-ID: <161227031983.23782.5279404688556974169.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

Dear members of the Indology List, and other scholars,

Since posting the announcement on 8/27/97 on this site about the publication
of the work concerning the discovery of cryptography or the linguistic
phenomenon of inversion and substitution in the Dravidian language family at
 < http://www.mninter.net/~kumar/  > I have been getting quite a few emails
concerning the subject. It has been heartning to see the interest and the
positive tone of the responses. After so many years of work, I am glad that
this discovery has been disclosed to world view unlike in the case of my
other work: The Sumerians: Their True Identity and the Evidence for it, which
was a desktop publication of my manuscript. My thanks to all who have
responded.

To those who have asked for individual attention concerning the matter, I
must submit my apologies, for it is quite impossible for me to answer so many
all at once, and individually. But, I have attempted to classify questions
into groups pertaing to a certain general area of the matter, and I will try
to give general answer pertaining to each area, one at a time, and post it
here so that others who may have the same question may also see the
information. The question I would like to respond to is: are the results of
the operation of the Dravidian linguistic phenomenon of inversion and
substitution hard to find?

A general answer to this question is already clear when you notice the
illustrations in the above noted published work. There are participating
words which are used everyday by the Indians in general and the Dravidians in
particular. There are also many words which are not used so popularly. But to
answer the question whether they are hard to find or not, the answer must be:
it is fairly easy if one is observant. In order to demonstrate this, I would
like to take a few examples almost all of which belong to a class or category
of words generally known to the scholars as the onomatopoeic expressions.
They are similar to such English words as: bang, crunch, zap, etc. These, as
might be gathered, are used in the daily speech of people speaking any
language. So they are not obscure words in Dravidian languages also. Most of
them are in the colloquial sphere of Dravidian, and unfortunately nobody has
made a special attempt to gather them all and publish them in a systematic
manner. No dictionary concerning itself with a Dravidian language or
languages has paid much attention to them. Nothing significant has been done
about the colloquial words, terms, etc., by the scholars in spite of the fact
that almost all of them are of very ancient age and contain considerable
information concerning the ancient Dravidians, their cultures, religions, and
their relationship with other peoples. Since these are not included in the
dictionaries, scholars, particularly those who have to rely on dictionaries
for their research concerning the Dravidians, miss much that might be useful
to them.

Now, assuming that you have read the above noted work to the extent that you
are aware of the various types of words which have been influenced by the
linguistic phenomenon of inversion and substitution in Dravidian, (that is,
factors such as that sometimes an addition or subtraction of the partcipating
consonant or consonants, vowel or vowels takes place, sometimes they vary due
to such factors as the phonetic correspondences affecting them, and so on),
let us start with the Tamil: kopp-enal, which is defined as an onomatopoeic
expression of moving suddenly (DED. #2112). The element we should be
concerned with here is kopp, because enal is attached to almost all of this
type of words in Tamil; it is similar to the English 'thus' or 'like'  - in
that manner - as in 'the expression 'like crunch'. Now, the inverted and
substituted form of this Tamil: kopp-enal is the other Tamil: pakk-enal,
which is another onomatopoeic expression of being sudden (DED. #3813).

As can be seen in these two expressions the order of the consonats in one is
reversed in the other (there is of course the addition of a consonant and the
role played by the substituting vowels), and they both essentially denote the
same meaning even though they are pronounced differently and are located in
two different places in the dictionary (DED). They are both onomatopoeic
expressions.

Now, we can take pett-enal, which is a Tamil onomatopoeic expression
signifying quickness (DED. #4393). Here we need to notice that the related
words of this pett-enal are the Tulu: pettugu, and pettige, denoting:
immediately (DED. #4393). Now, the inverted and substituted form of pett-enal
is the currently existing tapukk-enal, which is also an expression signifying
haste in Tamil (DED. #3069). Notice again that both of these are also
onomatopoeic expressions signifyng essentially the same meaning: quickness or
haste. We may also notice that there are the other Tamil: pata-pat-enal
(which is another onomatopoeic expression signifying hurry or speaking in
haste - DED. #3842 -), and pata-pat-enal (another onomatopoeic expression
signifying the trembling of the heart - DED. #3910; that is, there is the
element of hurriedness or quickness in the beat of the heart) which are also
in the picture we are witnessing here. There is also the other Tamil:
potukk-enal, which is another onomatopoeic expression signifying quickness
(DED. #4483). Notice how the above noted tapukku and this potukk end in kk,
even though the order of the consonants in the rest of one is reversed in the
rest of the other.

Next, we have the Tamil: patar-patar-enal (DED.#3841), which has its inverted
and substituted form in the othet Tamil: tapar-enal DED. #2947), both of
which are onomatopoeic expression signifyng: cracking. Note also that there
is the Kannada: teppa, which denotes: suddenly (DED.#3069), which has its
inverted and substituted form in the Tulu: patta, also denting: suddenly
(DED. #3842).

Further, we may notice the case of another Tamil taka-tak-enal, which is an
onomatopoeic expression of boiling (DED. #2997), which has its inverted and
substituted form in the Kannada colloquial: kata-kata or kota-kota, which is
an onomatopoeic expression of boiling. The Kannada kudi and kata-kata also
have their inverted and substituted form in the Tamil: uduku (meaning: to
boil - DED. 588 -) which is, of course, related to the bove noted Tamil:
taka-tak-enal, and another Tamil: tiku-tik-enal, which is also an onomatopeic
expression signifying: bubbling of water (DED. #3203).

Notice that another Tamil: taka-tak-enal denotes: glittering (DED. #2998),
and it has its inverted and substituted form in the Toda: kot- (koty-),
denoting: glitter (DED. #1207). There is  the Malayalam: taka taka, which
denotes: beating time (DED. #2997), and it has its inverted and substituted
form in the Tamil: kotti, which denotes: time measure (DED. #2063), and the
other Tamil: kottu, meaning: to beat (as drum), time measure (DED.#2063).
These latter words denoting drumbeat, and time measure are realted to such
other Tamil words as kitukku-kitukk-enal, which is an onomatopoeic expression
signifyng hollow sound (DED. #1531), kitukku, which denotes: small drum (DED.
#1531), and these in their turn are related to such other words as utukkai
denoting: small drum (DED.#589), so on and so forth. And we have
not even exhausted the ones in the dictionary, let alone those which are in
the colloquial spheres of these languages!

So, yes, the phenomenon of inversion and substitution in Dravidian can be
witnessed fairly easily, for the Dravidian language family is imbued with it.
What is more important is the fact that it is not hard to see this phenomenon
when we are witnessing words, terms, names, etc., which pertain to the
ancient gods, goddesses, demons, and which are used in the Indo-Aryan
languages. 
Thanks for your patience. Best regards.

Yours

V. Keerthi Kumar

<  http://www.mninter.net/~kumar/  >
<  dkumar6248 at aol.com  >        





