From DKumar6248 at aol.com  Mon Sep  1 22:04:37 1997
From: DKumar6248 at aol.com (DKumar6248 at aol.com)
Date: Mon, 01 Sep 97 18:04:37 -0400
Subject: Dravidian Cryptography
Message-ID: <161227032016.23782.14592693546415083055.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

Dear members of the List,

I have been receiving considerable email much of the contents of which
involves speculation about why and how the linguistic phenomenon of inversion
and substitution occurred in the Dravidian language family. I would like to
take this opportunity to respond to that here. But first, let me answer a
frequent question asked about my other work.

The Sumerians: Their True Identity and the Evidence for It, is not on the
World Wide Web. This work, in two volumes, was essentially my manuscript (a
'rough note book') of well over a thousand pages which I published in a
hurry. Even though the copies of the two volumes were placed with the
copyright office and in the Library of Congress at the time of their
publication (1988 and 1989), it was a desktop publication published with the
intention of deriving material from it for my other works. Having noticed
that this work, in spite of being a manuscript, did not get proper exposure,
I decided to publish the derivative work on the World Wide Web, for the
findings are considered by me to be important not only to the scholars of the
Dravidian languages, but also to those of the Indo-Aryan languages, and
beyond including the Hittitologists. Much of the material which is in this
derivative work, is taken from these two volumes some of the contents of
which I may choose to reedit and/or add more to it before republishing it.

Regarding the speculation as to why this phenomenon is there in Dravidian,
and how it started: In my endeavor to bring the findings to the attention of
the concerned scholars, right from the beginning, it has been my guiding
principle not to speculate on anything concerning this matter, but to state
what is proven by the pertaining evidence, and further substantiated by it.
The presence and operation of this linguistic phenomenon has been there from
the infancy of theses languages, and this is clearly proven and sustained by
the pertaining evidence. But I do not know how it started, for I do not have
any evidence to answer that question. Even though what it is is clear, It may
never be known how it started, and I do not want to speculate about it.

I beleive that, at all cost, the temptation to speculate on any unknown
aspect of  knowledge must be sternly resisted, for speculations and
projections which continue to be made are usually turned into theories which
in their turn often find a place in newspapers, magazines, textbooks,
encyclopedias, etc., and they have a tendency to stay there. A good example
is the episode concerning the supposed invasion by the supposed Aryans into
prehistoric India, and the supposed destruction they wreaked on the people of
the ancient Indian civilization usually referred to as the Indus Valley
Civilization, and this was repeated in all books even by the so-called
historians.. All this has been proved to be baseless. In fact it should never
have been surmised, taken for granted, and further propogated, for many
scholars like M.S. Elphinstone (1841) had already testified in no unmistable
terms that the Hindu scripture "..."is oppsed to their  (Hindus) foreign
origin...To say that it spread from a central point is an unwarranted
assumption, and even to anlogy; for, emigration and civilization have not
spread in a circle, but from east to west. Where, also, could the central
point be, from which a language could spread over India, Greece, and Italy
and yet leave Chaldea, Syria and Arabia untouched?" (History of India;
brackets  and omissions are mine).

It should be noted that not knowing why and how or the inability to witness
the phenomenon of inversion and substitution is no proof for the supposition
that it is not there in Dravidian. Witnessing of this phenomenon with ease
requires a good knowledge of a Dravidian language such as Kannada, and
orientation in the cultural, religious, and other aspects of the greater
Dravidian phenomenon. But it can be witnessed with the help of a Dravidian
dictionary, and this has been proven in the above noted document published on
the Web site. It is in order to make this point clear that numerous
colloquial words which are extremely important in witnessing this phenomenon
had to be left out, because they are not included in the dictionaries. It is
also in the colloquial areas of the Dravidian languages that important
phonetic correspondences which have been operating from very ancient times
are to be observed.

It is not only the existence and operation of this linguistic phenomenon in
Dravidian, but also its aspect of extraordinary implications that this
phenomenon has been responsible for, the magnitude of it which makes it
magnificent. Best regards.

May God give peace to Princess Diana's soal.

Yours

V. Keerthi Kumar

<  http://www.mninter.net/~kumar  >
email:  <  dkumar6248 at aol.com  >






