Etymon: paTTaN, pattan, patan
Although Dr. Sarma is not a Dravidain linguist, he is talking sense. How can
Tamil be equated with Proto-Dravidian? The kinds of questions that are asked
as well as answered in the list sometimes strike me very naive and not
basically scholarly questions. Caldwell used the term Dravidian for the
whole family of languages and not for Tamil. It is also true that DraaviDa
was originally used to designate Tamil. No body questions the antiquity of
Tamil literature. But it has nothing to do with its preserving the
Proto-Dravidian features. Tamil- Malayalam-Telugu palatalized
Proto-Dravidian *k- before front vowels (with some constraints) but all
other languages have preserved the older *k, e.g. *key: Ta. Ma.cey, Te.
ceeyu; but Ka. gey, etc. Ta. Ma.u in pukai is later than o *pokay. Features
that  Tamil had changed several centuries ago are preserved in some other
languages including some tribal languages. Toda-Malayalam-Konda- Jaffna
Tamil preserve r/R distinction. Modern Tamil has lost it as well as Telugu
and Kannada. The Listserve should not degenerate into an undergraduate class
in comparative linguistics, a field that ssome of the correspondents do not
seem to be familaiar with. Why are you wasting your time? If you are
interested, please let me know (not through through listserv but
individually) I will tell you what to read. Bh. Krishnamurti.
At 16:30 22/11/97 +0000, you wrote:
