and preparing the indexes for eight books.  From 1985-1991, he was joint
managing editor of the land-mark Kriyavin tarkalat Tamil akarati [A Tamil -
Tamil - English dictionary of contemporary Tamil] published by Cre-A: in
1992.  He was also a joint editor of the 1992 publication, Cognitive
paradigms in knowledge organization.  His translation into Tamil of David
Werner's Where there is no doctor appeared in 1984 as Taktar illata itattil
and remains a best seller.
     Many of Sankaralingam's thirty-one students in the Masters in Library
and Information Science at the University of Madras have gone on to
positions of library leadership throughout India.  He was revered by his
students as a gifted and demanding teacher who gave special attention to
the needs of students in financial need.
     Other major projects and activities in which Sankaralingam took a
leading role include:  a project for automation and reorganization of the
library of the Department of Indology, French Institute, Pondicherry; a
project to develop an information storage and retrieval system for the
audio and video recordings available in the Archives of All India Radio and
Doordarshan; and development of a morphological analyzer for Tamil.  He was
a founding trustee of MOZHI, a public Trust for Resource Development in
Language and Culture, and held that position until becoming Director of
RMRL.
     He is survived by his wife, Sankarammal, and two sons, Ranganathan and
Kartik.  Letters of condolence may be sent to the family residence at:
74/10 Gem Flats; Anna Nagar Western Extension; Madras 600 050




