NASA Founds!!!
:  "harinam108" <harinam108 at y...>
 NASA Images Discover Ancient Bridge between India and SriLanka
ADVERTISEMENT
NASA Images Discover Ancient Bridge between India and SriLanka
(Courtesy : NASA Digital Image Collection)
<http://images.jsc.nasa.gov/iams/images/earth/STS059/lowres/20143034.j
pg>
Space images taken by NASA reveal a mysterious ancient bridge in the
Strait between India and Sri Lanka. The recently discovered bridge
currently named as Adam?s Bridge is made of chain of shoals, c.18 mi
(30 km) long.
The bridge?s unique curvature and composition by age reveals that it
is man made. The legends as well as Archeological studies reveal that
the first signs of human inhabitants in Sri Lanka date back to the a
primitive age, about 17,50,000 years ago and the bridge?s age is also
almost equivalent.
This information is a crucial aspect for an insight into the
mysterious legend called Ramayana, which was supposed to have taken
place in treta yuga (more than 17,00,000 years ago).
In this epic, there is a mentioning about a bridge, which was built
between Rameshwaram (India) and Srilankan coast under the supervision
of a dynamic and invincible figure called Rama who is supposed to be
the incarnation of the supreme.
This information may not be of much importance to the archeologists
who are interested in exploring the origins of man, but it is sure to
open the spiritual gates of the people of the world to have come to
know an ancient history linked to the Indian mythology.
http://www.latinmail.com.  Gratuito, latino y en espa?ol.
