Dave on birds
For the "exactness fallacy" see precisely
Zimmermann's book which I mentioned. In Sanskrit
terminology no "European" exactness can be
expected simply because there was no phase of
collective empirical and methodological rigour
which in Europe became only possible when
scholars could quickly and widely communicate
with printed publications (cf. Elisabeth
Eisenstein). Only when printing was used scholars
could co-ordinate their observations and find
out, in the course of the sixteenth-seventeenth
century, that there is no such thing as the
unicorn, whereas the zarabha continues to be
happily taken serious in Ayurvedic texts and
their later commentaries.
It is not worthwhile to learn Dutch especially
for this purpose but for those who know it I
point to W.P. Gerritsen, De Eenhoorn en de
Geleerden: Het debat over het bestaan van de
eenhoorn van de zestiende tot de negentiende
eeuw, Leiden: Universiteitsbibliotheek, 2002.
Best, Jan
wrote:
Do you Yahoo!?
Yahoo! Mail Plus - Powerful. Affordable. Sign up now.
http://mailplus.yahoo.com
