>From the editors? preface:

***

...

The scienti?c study of the Orient started in Romania long ago and reached
an early summit in the internationally acclaimed pioneering work of the
Romanian orientalist and historian of religions Mircea Eliade (1907-1986).
It was therefore fortunate and appropriate that the then Centre of
Eurasiatic and Afroasiatic Studies, after having organized several seminars
and courses in Eurasiatic and Afroasiatic Studies in preceding years, could
organize the Fifth International Vedic Workshop in Bucharest from 20 to 23
September 2011. The editors of the volume of Proceedings of this event are
happy that it could appear in the prestigious series of the Harvard
Oriental Series, Opera Minora, Cambridge (Mass.), where, nineteen years
ago, in 1997, also the Proceedings of the First International Vedic
Workshop edited by Michael Witzel appeared. The 41 papers in the present
volume contribute, in one way or another, to ?the study of a civilization
based on its texts? ? the brief de?nition of philology given in Michael
Witzel?s Introduction to the Proceedings of 1997.

The papers, although many of them may cover more than one ?eld or topic,
are placed in three broad categories. The second category is further
divided Veda-wise.

...

***

ToC

***



GENERAL STUDIES AND TOPICS ON ??KH?S



On the Current Situation of Vedic ??kh?s (Materials on Vedic ??kh?s, 9)

? Michael Witzel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1



N?gation et compl?mentarit? dans le Veda, ? la lumi?re de Panini (et de
Platon)

? Radu Bercea . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 95



Atir?tra

? Joel P. Brereton . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    107



Vedic schools in northwestern India

? Johannes Bronkhorst . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     119



Some observations regarding the concept of Time in Vedic ritual as re?ected
in

several Vedic schools

? Maitreyee Deshpande . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         133



