the first edition of 1819. From this 1819 Preface we learn that Wilson?s
material for this dictionary was translated from a voluminous manuscript
Sanskrit dictionary compiled by pandits under the final superintendence of
Raghumani Bhattacharya and completed in 1809. The title of Wilson?s
original 1819 edition, now available for free download from Google Books,
reflects this: *A Dictionary, Sanscrit and English: Translated, Amended and
Enlarged, from an Original Compilation Prepared by Learned Natives for the
College of Fort William*.


As an example etymology, we may look at what Wilson?s dictionary gives for
*s?k?in*, which Patrick McCartney had asked about on July 12. It uses the
abbreviation ?E.? for etymology, and gives the Sanskrit words in devan?gar?
script, which I here romanize and italicize: ?E. *sa* for *saha* with, (in
presence of,) *ak?i* the eye, *ini* aff.? Those of us who have not yet
memorized P??ini will now have to turn to a reference book to determine
what the *ini* affix is. Two good ones for this are *A Dictionary of
Sanskrit Grammar*, by Kashinath Vasudev Abhyankar and J. M. Shukla (Baroda:
Oriental Institute,1961; 2nd rev. ed. 1977), and *Dictionary of P??ini*, by
Sumitra Mangesh Katre, 3 vols. (Poona: Deccan College, 1968-1969).


These reference books tell us that *ini* is the *k?t* (i.e., primary) affix
or suffix *-in*, and we are referred to P??ini 3.2.93 and 3.2.156-157. This
explains the *-in* ending on *s?k?in*. We now have to look up *ak?i* in
Wilson?s dictionary to find the root. It gives: ?*a?* to pervade, and *si*
affix.? Again using the P??ini dictionaries, we find that *si* is the
*un??i* affix or suffix *-si* or *-ksi*, and we are referred to
*Un??i-s?tra* 3.155 or P??ini 7.2.9. In brief, the root *a?* plus -*si*
becomes *ak?i*. This example was a bit complex, but I have found Wilson?s
dictionary very helpful for determining the formation of words whose
etymology is not obvious. Of course, most of us will also need an English
translation of P??ini?s *A???dh?y?* to consult, such as those by ?r??a
Chandra Vasu or by Sumitra M. Katre.


Best regards,


David Reigle

Colorado, U.S.A.


-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20150725/748c1c80/attachment.htm>

