From deven.m.patel at gmail.com  Wed Dec 16 21:39:36 2015
From: deven.m.patel at gmail.com (Deven Patel)
Date: Wed, 16 Dec 15 16:39:36 -0500
Subject: [INDOLOGY] Positions: Lecturer in Dravidian Languages and Assistant Professor of Modern South Asian Literature at the University of Pennsylvania
Message-ID: <CAA2LJ2R85GHD5TkUqbXVOZoDb_dJediribaM7eURxH8VGaBN7g@mail.gmail.com>

Dear Colleagues:

Please circulate the following two postings among students and colleagues:

*1.) Lecturer in Dravidian Languages *

The South Asia Studies Department at the University of Pennsylvania invites
applications for a full-time appointment as Lecturer in Dravidian
Languages. The appointment will begin in August 2016 and includes teaching
three courses per semester. This appointment will be for one academic year
and may be renewed twice for a total of three years, contingent upon a
satisfactory performance review after each year and approval of the Dean.
After three years, there may be a possibility of appointment to the rank of
Lecturer in Foreign Languages following a track record of consistently
outstanding performance. The appointee will be expected to contribute to
the long-term quality, stability and development of a Dravidian language
program at Penn at all levels. Special attention will be given to
candidates with the ability to teach two South Asian languages, at least
one of which must be a Dravidian language. A PhD or near-PhD is strongly
preferred.
Preference will be given to candidates with proven experience in teaching a
South Asian language and with proven creativity and pedagogical success in
the design and delivery of courses particularly at the elementary and
intermediate levels of instruction.

Applicants should apply at:
http://facultysearches.provost.upenn.edu/postings/739 . Submit a cover
letter, CV, and a statement of teaching philosophy and methods. Also submit
the names and contact information of three individuals who have agreed to
provide a letter of recommendation. The University will contact the
references with instructions on how to submit their letters. Applications
will be reviewed as received and will continue until the position is filled.

*2.) Assistant Professor, Modern South Asian Literature*

The Department of South Asia Studies at the University of Pennsylvania
invites applications for a tenure-track position at the level of assistant
professor in the field of modern South Asian literatures, beginning in Fall
2016. Native or near-native proficiency in at least one South Asian language
is required, and proficiency in a second language and literary tradition is
highly desirable. The ideal candidate will have an intimate knowledge of
the appropriate cultural and historical contexts. The position will involve
designing and teaching courses on modern South Asian literatures in English
translation and in the original language(s). The appointee will teach and
conduct research in the field of modern South Asian literatures, supervise
graduate students in our M.A. and Ph.D. programs, and participate in
service and scholarly activities designed to advance the mission of the
Department and the University.

Applicants should apply at
http://facultysearches.provost.upenn.edu/postings/740 . Submit a cover
letter, CV, and a statement of teaching philosophy and methods. Also submit
the names and contact information of three individuals who have agreed to
provide a letter of recommendation. The University will contact the
references with instructions on how to submit their letters. Applications
will be reviewed as received and will continue until the position is filled.

The Department of South Asia Studies is strongly committed to Penn?s Action
Plan for Faculty Diversity and Excellence and to creating a more diverse
faculty (for more information see:
http://www.upenn.edu/almanac/volumes/v58/n02/diversityplan.html). The
University of Pennsylvania is an EOE. Minorities/Women/Individuals with
disabilities/Protected Veterans are encouraged to apply.


-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20151216/d0e54601/attachment.htm>

