one. One passage is particularly telling in this regard. From it, it
becomes clear that the two opposing forces (previous efforts (= ?*karma*?)
vs. present efforts) are equal in their essence (as ?efforts?), but
naturally different in their strength. Ideas of a predetermination in the
sense of ?effort 1? (past) controlling ?effort 2? (present) are lacking.

In consequence of that the result depends solely on the superior fighting
power in the hour of clashing interests. When it comes to that, the
stronger (*atibala*) of the two will succeed (?*ji*).

The example is that of two fighting rams, equal in their essence of their
being rams, but each of different individual strength:

*dvau hu??v iva yudhyete puru??rthau sam?samau*

*?tm?ya? c?nyad?ya? ca* *jayaty atibalas tayo?* || (MU II.5.5)

*tayo?* [=] dvayo? puru??rthayo? madhye | *atibalo jayati *| *hu?a?* [=]
???gasahito m?gavi?e?a? (M?); *hu?au* [=] me?au (VTP).



Translation Steiner:

?Wie zwei B?cke bek?mpfen sich zwei [Arten von] Tatkraft, [die ihrer Art
nach] gleich, [an St?rke aber jeweils] ungleich sind: die zu einem selbst
und die zu einem anderen geh?rige [Tatkraft]. Von diesen beiden siegt die
[jeweils] st?rkere [Tatkraft].? (MU II, p. 179).


That human effort is seen as the supreme precondition in the soteriology of
the *V?si??hadar?ana* (as Bh?skaraka??ha called it) emerges also from
Vasi??ha?s judgment pronounced on *bhakti* and *bh?kta*s. As the latter,
too, would rather prefer to rely on salvific powers of gods instead of
making own efforts, he lashes the *vai??av? bhakti* politically incorrectly
as a concept developed for blockheads (*m?rkha*):


*??strayatnavic?rebhyo m?rkh???? prapal?yat?m |*

*kalpit? vai??av? bhakti? prav?ttyartha? ?ubhasthitau* || MU V.43.20 ||



?F?r die Toren, [die] vor dem [gedanklichen] Reflektieren unter den M?hen
des Lehrwerk[studiums] davonlaufen, [wurde] die Hingabe *(bhakti) *an Vi??u
ersonnen, damit [diese] sich in einen heilvollen Zustand begeben [k?nnen].?
(Der Weg zur Befreiung. Das F?nfte Buch. Das Buch ?ber das Zurruhekommen.
?bersetzung von Roland Steiner. Wiesbaden 2015.)



Thus, Vasi??ha seems to be quite consistent in his thought.



Best wishes, Walter
?


-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20170204/4a808ad9/attachment.htm>

