From rhododaktylos at gmail.com  Thu Jul  6 16:05:55 2017
From: rhododaktylos at gmail.com (Antonia Ruppel)
Date: Thu, 06 Jul 17 17:05:55 +0100
Subject: [INDOLOGY] Sanskrit Readers: compiled list
Message-ID: <CAEjEOsAx9-CguOT7pKR1Ya0qK7qmAOLso6_9v12+qUOQ_-Ma2A@mail.gmail.com>

Dear all,



Sincere thanks to everyone who contributed to this list ? Christophe Vielle
found an incredible number of little treasures, but just as helpful were
the contributions by Manu Francis, Rosane Rocher, George Thompson, Walter
Slaje, Matthew Kapstein, Asko Parpola, Erik Sand, Georges Pinault, Brendan
Gillon, Tatiana Oranskaia, Klaus Karttunen, Jan Filipsk?, Herman Tull,
Aleksandar Uskokov, David Buchta and Rembert Lutjeharms.



I think the main surprise for most of us is the sheer number of readers out
there. I have thus split up the list to make it easier to use: after the
general readers, there are those focusing on selections from specific texts
(or textual genres), ?readers? of texts in translation (which of course
have a different goal; they are mentioned here so that no one will confuse
them for the kind of reader the main list focuses on), and finally, 19th-
and early-20th-century readers created for the use in Indian schools and
universities.



There is considerable (although not complete) functional overlap between
these latter and readers produced for European and North American
audiences; the main reason I have here listed them separately is their
sheer number, combined with the fact that I am well aware that many more
exist that are missing from this list. (Many of the readers included in
this last part of the list were either mentioned to me by Rembert
Lutjeharms (librarian at the Oxford Centre for Hindu Studies, whose
collection of such readers comes from the library of the late Prof. J.A.F.
Roodbergen); Madhav Deshpande kindly shared his collection of .pdfs with
me, part of which I uploaded to archive.org; finally, Matthew Kapstein also
mentioned that he had a lot of material of this kind.)



Each entry includes a link either to a downloadable pdf or, failing that,
to the relevant WorldCat entry so that the book can be located in a
library. I have included the list directly in this mail (rather than
attaching it as a .doc or .pdf) as that makes the many links easily
clickable. Where no pdf is available, I have given more of the available
bibliographic information in case someone wants to attempt to find the book
in question.


Comments, corrections, additions are always welcome. (Perhaps to me rather
than to the list, as I'm sure many are growing tired of this subject.) I
will make the list available online later this summer.



Many thanks once more to everyone who has so kindly contributed to this
compilation. I personally have profited from it greatly: what I have seen
so far has shown me in many ways what to do and what to avoid in my own
reader. I hope others will find useful teaching aids here.



All the best,

    Antonia





*GENERAL*

- *Benfey, Theodor *(1854) *Chrestomathie aus Sanskritwerken: zum Gebrauch
f?r Vorlesungen und zum Selbststudium*.

Availability: PDF: http://books.google.com/books?id=R6MIAAAAQAAJ

*- Bergaigne, Abel* (1884) *Manuel pour ?tudier la langue sanscrite:
chrestomathie, lexique, principes de grammaire.*

Availability: URL: http://www.archive.org/details/manuelpourtudie00berggoog

*- **B?htlingk, Otto* (1909) *Sanskrit-Chrestomathie. **Dritte verbesserte
und vermehrte Auflage.*

Availability: PDF: https://archive.org/details/sanskritchresto00bhgoog

*- Brough, J. *(1978) *Selections from Classical Sanskrit Literature.*

Availability: available to buy;

https://www.worldcat.org/title/selections-from-classical-sanskrit-literature/oclc/249101234/editions?editionsView=true&referer=br

*- Carey, William* (1804) *A Sanskrit Chrestomathy* [title? Carey usually
writes Sungs(c/k)rit] *containing extracts from the Hitopade?a,
Da?akum?racarita and Bhart?hari*, Serampur.

Availability: ?

*- Frank, Othmar* (1820) *Chrestomathia Sanskrita*.

Availability: PDF: https://archive.org/details/chrestomathiasan01fran

*- Frank, Othmar* (1821) *Chrestomathia Sanskrita*. Pars altera.

Availability: PDF: https://archive.org/details/chrestomathiasan02fran

*- Fri?, Old**?**ich* (1954) *Sanskrtsk? **?**?tanka. Sanskritskaya
khrestomatiya. Sanskrit Reader*. I. Praha: Nakladatelstv? ?eskoslovensk?
akademie v?d.

*Fri?, Old**?**ich* (1956) *Sanskrtsk? **?**?tanka. Sanskritskaya
khrestomatiya. Sanskrit Reader. II. Slovn?k. Slovar. Vocabulary*. Praha:
Nakladatelstv? ?eskoslovensk? akademie v?d.

Availability: see immediately below

Recently published in a new edition as:

*Frish, Oldrzhikh* (2015)* Sanskrtsk? **?**?tanka. Sanskritskaya
khrestomatiya. Sanskrit Reader. I.* Bibliotheca Sanscritica, Tom I. Moskva:
Knigoizdatelstvo ?ABV?.

Availability: available to buy:
http://delphisbooks.ru/sanskritskaya-khrestomatiya-v-2-tomakh-tom-1-tekstyfrish-o/

*Frish, Oldrzhikh* (2015) *Sanskrtsk? **?**?tanka. Sanskritskaya
khrestomatiya. Sanskrit Reader. II. Slovn?k ? Slovar - Vocabulary*.
Bibliotheca Sanscritica, Tom II. Moskva: Knigoizdatelstvo ?ABV?.

Availability: available to buy:
http://delphisbooks.ru/sanskritskaya-khrestomatiya-v-2-tomakh-tom-2-slovarfrisho/

- *Gangopadhyay*
<https://www.abebooks.co.uk/servlet/SearchResults?an=Malaya+Gangopadhyay&cm_sp=det-_-plp-_-author>*,
M. *(1991, 2003) *Bhasabodhini: a Sanskrit Reader* (Sri Garib Das Oriental
Series).

Availability: available to buy;
https://www.worldcat.org/search?q=Bhasabodhini%3A+a+Sanskrit+Reader+&qt=owc_search

*- Gelabert y Gordiola, Juan* (1890) *Lengua sanskrita: crestomatia y
gram?tica.*

Availability:
http://www.worldcat.org/title/manual-de-lengua-sanskrita-crestomatia-y-gramatica/oclc/40969407

- *Guerrier de Dumast, Auguste Prosper Fran?ois* (1857) *Fleurs de l?Inde*.

 Availability: PDF: http://books.google.com/books?id=aPUYdaV3VwoC

- *Hayes, Richard *(not published?) A Sanskrit Reader, comprising excerpts
from ??ntideva?s Bodhicary?vat?ram and A?vagho?a?s Buddhacaritam. (This is
a description, not the official title.)

Availability: ?

*- Hoefer, Albert* (1849) *Sanskrit-Lesebuch mit Benutzung
handschriftlicher Quellen*. (Mentions 2nd volume, which does not seem to
have been published).

Availability: PDF: http://archive.org/details/sanskritlesebuc00hoefgoog

*- Hjortsh?j, Erik Pihlkj?r* (1984) *Introduction to Sanskrit. 1. Reader.* Part
1. Texts. (Vet25, Hit, Pt, Mbh, KSS, poems).

Availability:
https://www.worldcat.org/search?qt=worldcat_org_all&q=Hjortsh%C3%B8j+Introduction+to+Sanskrit

- *Ingeland, Bengt, Mirja Juntunen, Roberto Menkes *(1997) *La?sebok i
sanskrit: med originaltext, ordlista, kommentarer och o?versa?ttning*,
Stockholm Association of Oriental Studies. Series: Stockholm oriental
textbook series, 2.

Availability:
https://www.worldcat.org/search?q=%22La%CC%88sebok+i+sanskrit%22&qt=results_page

- *Knauer, Fyodor (Friedrich) Ivanovich* (1908) *Textbook of the Sanskrit
Language*. Grammar. Chrestomathy. Glossary.  Leipzig: Typography of V.
Drugulin. (Contains: Nala and Damayant?, S?vitr? from the Mah?bh?rata, some
hymns from the RV, Story of the Flood from the ?atapatha Br?hma?a).
2nd ed. Moscow: Starklayt, 2011.
3rd ed. in the series Bibliotheca Sanscritica, vol.3, Moscow: ABV, 2015.
Availability:  For access, register on this website:
http://www.twirpx.com/file/137913/; available to buy at
http://samskrtam.ru/bibliotheca-sanscritica/
- *Lanman, **Charles Rockwell *(1883) *A Sanskrit Reader*.

Availability:  PDF:  https://archive.org/details/asanskritreader01lanmgoog

- *Lassen, Christianus* (1838)* Anthologia sanscritica glossario instructa.*

Availability:  PDF:  https://archive.org/details/b28741249

Second edition, edited by Joannes Gildemeister (1865):
https://archive.org/details/bub_gb_YmTJdHhREzgC

Third revised edition (1868):
https://archive.org/details/anthologiasansc00gildgoog

*- Leupol, Louis*, *Emile Burnouf* (1867) *Selectae e Sanscriticis
scriptoribus paginae. Choix de morceaux Sanscrits traduits, annot?s,
analys?s.*

Availability:  PDF:  https://archive.org/details/selectaesanscr00leup

*- Liebich, Bruno* (1905) *Sanskrit-Lesebuch. Zur Einf?hrung in die
altindische Sprache und Literatur.*

Availability: PDF: http://archive.org/details/sanskritlesebuc00liebgoog
<http://archive.org/details/sanskritlesebuc00liebgoog>

*- Liebich, B. (1906) **Pr?parierheft *zu:* Liebich Sanskrit-Lesebuch.*

Availability: http://www.worldcat.org/search?q=no%3A84260879

*- Mylius, K. *(1978, current imprint 2005) *Chrestomathie der
Sanskritliteratur.*

Availability: available to buy;
https://www.worldcat.org/title/chrestomathie-der-sanskritliteratur/oclc/238172871/editions?editionsView=true&referer=br

*- Pull?, Francesco Lorenzo* (1873) *Piccola Crestomazia sanscrita.*

Availability: PDF: https://books.google.com/books?id=upHBYfJgXoIC

*- Pull?, Francesco Lorenzo* (1878) *Crestomazia sanscrita e vedica.*

Availability:
https://www.worldcat.org/title/crestomazia-sanscrita-e-vedica-compilata-per-lo-studio-di-padova-da-fl-pulle-prima-seconda-parte/oclc/458216628&referer=brief_results

*- Rampolla del Tindaro, M. *(1936) *Lingua Sanscrita ? Grammatica,
Exercitia, Anthologia.*

Availability: PDF:
https://archive.org/details/LinguaSanscritaGrammaticaExercitiaAnthologiaAutoreMRampollaDelTindaro

- *Robinson, Richard *(mimeographed, unpublished) primer-cum-reader based
on *S**?**vitr?*, used in Wisconsin in the 60s.

*- Rodet, L?on *(1859, 1860) *Grammaire abr?g?e de la langue sanscrite.* (The
second part contains a few heavily annotated readings at the back.)

Availability: PDF: *Premi?re partie*:
https://books.google.fr/books?id=whkeySonXcgC

Availability: PDF: *Deuxi?me partie*:
https://archive.org/details/bub_gb_dPonaqErkXEC

*- Scharp?, Adriaan* (1943) *Handleiding bij de studie van het klassieke
Sanskrit*, III: Teksten. Leuven: N.V. De Vlaamsche Drukkerij.

Availability:
https://www.worldcat.org/search?q=Handleiding+bij+de+studie+van+het+klassieke+Sanskrit&qt=owc_search
https://www.worldcat.org/search?qt=worldcat_org_all&q=Handleiding+bij+de+studie+van+het+klassieke+Sanskrit

*- Schmidt, Johannes* (1868) *Kleine Sanskrit-Chrestomathie*. (mostly
Vedic; ?Separatabdruck des indischen Teiles in Schleichers indogermanischer
chrestomathie?)

Availability: PDF http://archive.org/details/indogermanische00schmgoog

*- **Stchoupak, Nadine* (1948) *Chrestomathie sanskrite.*

Availability:
https://www.worldcat.org/search?qt=worldcat_org_all&q=Nadine+Stchoupak%2C+Chrestomathie+sanskrite

*- Stenzler, Adolf Friedrich* (1867) *Sanskrit-Texte mit Vokabular: f?r
Anf?nger*.

Availability: PDF: http://books.google.com/books?id=Ip0-AAAAcAAJ

The ?reader? part of Stenzler?s *Elementarbuch der Sanskrit-Sprache*
expands in successive editions:

Availability: PDF:

2nd edition 1868: http://www.archive.org/details/elementarbuchde01stengoog

5th edition 1885: http://www.archive.org/details/elementarbuchde02stengoog

6th edition 1892 (adapted by Richard Pischel):
https://archive.org/details/elementarbuchde00geldgoog

*- Thumb, Albert *(1953) *Handbuch des Sanskrit, *II. Teil: *Texte und
Glossar **von Richard Hauschild*.

Availability: PDF:
http://www.archive.org/details/handbuchdessansk02thumuoft

- *Tsuji, Naoshiro* (1975) *Sanskrit Tokuhon.* (Sanskrit Reader).

Availability: ?

*- Tubb, Gary *(produced by around 1999, not published) *Reader in
Intermediate Sanskrit*. (Contains several fascicles covering different
genres of Sanskrit texts of intermediate difficulty; Mahabharata; "Sanskrit
Narrative Verse from Medieval Kashmir," drawing from the B?hatkath?ma?jar?,
Kath?sarits?gara, and the Laghuyogavasi??ha.)

*- Varenne, Jean* (1966)* Textes sanskrits*.

Availability: can be bought at
https://presses-universitaires.univ-amu.fr/textes-sanskrits

*- Vasconcelos de Abreu, G*. (1883) *Manual para o estudo do s?oskrito
classico*.  2. *Chrestomathia*.

Availability: PDF:

Vol. 1 - Grammar:
https://archive.org/details/ManualDeSanscrito1GramaticaGDeVasconcelosAbreu

Vol. 2 - Reader:
https://archive.org/details/ManualDeSanscrito2CrestomatiaGDeVasconcelosAbreu

Vol. 3 - Vocabulary:
https://archive.org/details/ManualDeSanscrito3VocabulariosGDeVasconcelosAbreu

*- Warder, A.K.* (1965) A Sanskrit Prose Reader (3 Vols)
Availability: PDFs

https://archive.org/details/SanskritProseReaderVolume1
https://archive.org/details/SanskritProseReaderVolume2
https://archive.org/details/SanskritProseReaderVocabulary

*- Wernicke Olesen, Bjarne* (2013, 20142) *Gudernes sprog, klassisk
sanskrit p? dansk* (2 Vols).

Available to buy:
http://www.arnoldbusck.dk/boeger/religion/gudernes-sprog-klassisk-sanskrit-pa-dansk
;

https://www.worldcat.org/search?q=Gudernes+sprog%2C+klassisk+sanskrit+p?+dansk+&qt=results_page
<https://www.worldcat.org/search?q=Gudernes+sprog%2C+klassisk+sanskrit+p%C3%A5+dansk+&qt=results_page>

- *Westergaard, N.L.* (1846) *Sanskrit L?sebog*. Med Tilh?rende Ordsamling.

accompanied by

*Westergaard, N.L.* (1846) *Kortfattet Sanskrit Forml?re*.

Availability: PDF:
https://books.google.com.ua/books?id=0rQ9AAAAYAAJ&redir_esc=y

*- Yates, William*: *The Sunscrit Reader, or easy Introduction to the
Reading of the Sunscrit Language. In five parts I. Select Sentences II.
Dialogues III. Duties of Young persons IV. Fables V. Poetical Extracts.* 64
p. Calcutta 1821 (in Bengali letters, very rare), 2nd ed. (in Devan?gar?)
Calcutta 1822.

Availability:
https://www.worldcat.org/search?q=Sunscrit+Reader&qt=results_page





*SPECIALISED*



*Collections of Texts in Translation*

*- Dimmitt, C. & J. A. B. Van Buitenen* (1978) *Classical Hindu Mythology.
A Reader in Sanskrit Pur??as.*

Availability: available to buy;
https://www.worldcat.org/title/classical-hindu-mythology-a-reader-in-the-sanskrit-puranas/oclc/917137967&referer=brief_results

*- Johnson, Francis *(1842) *Selections from the Mahabharata.*

Availability: PDF: https://archive.org/details/selectionsfromma00john

*- Kretschmer, H. *(2015) *Sanskrit Reader 1: A Reader in Sanskrit
Literature**.*

Availability: print-on-demand, information: www.indische-bibliothek.de
- *Renou, Louis *(1961) *Anthologie sanskrite. Textes de l'Inde ancienne
traduits du sanskrit*.
Availability: https://catalog.hathitrust.org/Record/007959447;
http://www.worldcat.org/title/anthologie-sanskrite-textes-de-linde-ancienne-traduits-du-sanskrit/oclc/4878920

*- Roer, Edward *(1904) *Selections from the Upanishads.*

Availability: PDF: https://archive.org/details/RoerSelectionsFromUpanisads

- *J. F. Staal* <http://b-ok.org/g/J.%20F.%20Staal> (1972) *A Reader on the
Sanskrit Grammarians**.*

Availability: PDF: http://b-ok.org/book/2029976/428be2



*Vedic*

*- Bergaigne, Abel, Victor Henry* (1890), *Manuel pour ?tudier le sanscrit
v?dique. Pr?cis de grammaire - Chrestomathie ? Lexique*.

 Availability: PDF: http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/bpt6k58087247

*- Delbr?ck, Berthold* (1874) *Vedische Chrestomathie: mit Anmerkungen und
Glossar*.

 Availability: PDF: http://archive.org/details/vedischechresto01delbgoog

*- Hillebrandt, Alfred* (1885) *Vedachrestomathie: f?r den ersten Gebrauch
bei Vedavorlesungen*.

Availability: PDF:
http://gretil.sub.uni-goettingen.de/gretil_elib/Hil885__Hillebrandt_Vedachrestomathie.pdf

- *Hock, H. H. *(2006) *An Early Upanishadic Reader**.*

Availability: available to buy;

https://www.worldcat.org/title/early-upanisadic-reader/oclc/156993001/editions?editionsView=true&referer=br

*- Macdonell, A. A.* (1917) *A Vedic Reader for Students*.

Availability: PDF: http://archive.org/details/vedicreaderforst00macd

*- **Windisch, Ernst* (1883) *Zw?lf Hymnen des Rgveda mit S?ya?a's
Commentar. Text. W?rterbuch zu S?ya?a. Appendices*.

Availability: PDF: http://archive.org/details/zwlfhymnendesr00sayauoft



*Other Specialisations*

- *Dhammajoti*
<https://www.abebooks.co.uk/servlet/SearchResults?an=Bhikkhu+KL+Dhammajoti&cm_sp=det-_-plp-_-author>*,
B. *(2013) *Reading Buddhist Sanskrit Texts**.*

 Availability: can be ordered from
http://buddhadharma.co/Reading-Buddhist-Sanskrit-Texts-An-Elementary-Grammatical-Guide
- *Gonda, J. *(1935) *A Sanskrit Reader, containing seventeen epic and
puranic texts, with a glossary**.*

Japanese translation: *Yoroi, Kiyoshi (1995) *Sansukuritto jojishi pura?na
tokuhon: tekisuto-chu?, bumpo? tekiyo?, inritsu-ko? fu (Tokyo: Ho?zo?-kan)

Availability:
https://www.worldcat.org/search?q=gonda+sanskrit+reader&qt=results_page

- *Gonda, Jan* (1948) Twenty-five Sanskrit Inscriptions.

 Availability:  can be viewed and downloaded in part at:
https://books.google.com/books?id=NxAVAAAAIAAJ

*- Leupol,* *Louis *(1868) *Sp?cimen des Pur?nas. Texte, transcription,
traduction et commentaire des principaux passages du Brahm?vaevarta pur?n?a*.


Availability:  PDF:  https://archive.org/details/bub_gb_LEaTPbxzflYC



*Focus on single texts*

*- James R. Ballantyne *(18732) *First Lessons in Sanskrit Grammar together
with an Introduction to the Hitopade?a *(a kind of reader (of the
Hitopade?a) in its part 2).

Availability: https://books.google.com/books?id=sYT3MMF3LM4C
<https://books.google.be/books?id=sYT3MMF3LM4C>

*- B?hler, G.* (18883) *Third Reading Book for the Use of High Schools.
With a glossary by Vishnu S. Pandit.*

Availability: PDF: https://books.google.com/books?id=UZw-AAAAcAAJ
<https://books.google.be/books?id=UZw-AAAAcAAJ>

*- Caland*, *Willem* (1916) *S?vitr? en Nala: Twee episoden uit het
Mah?bh?rata. Tekst met korte verlarende noten en woordenlijst*.

Availability:
https://www.worldcat.org/search?q=%22Twee+episoden+uit+het+Mahabharata%22&qt=results_page

*- Caland, Willem *(1911, reprint 1982) *S?vitr? und Nala*.

Availability: http://archive.org/details/savitriundnalazw01calauoft

*- Eggeling, Julius* (1913) *Nalop?khy?nam. The Story of Nala. Edited with
a Vocabulary.*

Availability: http://www.worldcat.org/title/story-of-nala/oclc/5290216

*- Johnson, Francis* (1840) *Hitopade?a: The Sanskrit text of the First
Book, or Mitra-L?bha; with a grammatical analysis, alphabetically arranged*.

Availability:  PDF: https://archive.org/details/b2874794x

*- Johnson, Francis* (1847) *Hitopade?a: The Sanskrit text, with a
grammatical analysis, alphabetically arranged*.

Availability: PDF: https://books.google.com/books?id=GR4YAAAAYAAJ
<https://books.google.be/books?id=GR4YAAAAYAAJ>

2nd ed. 1864:

Availability:  PDF: https://books.google.com/books?id=IKIIAAAAQAAJ
<https://books.google.be/books?id=IKIIAAAAQAAJ>

*- Kellner, Hermann Camillo* (1885) *Lied vom K?nig Nala. Erstes Lesebuch
f?r Anf?nger im Sanskrit.*

Availability: PDF: https://archive.org/details/dasliedvonknig00kelluoft

- *Monier-Williams, Monier* (1879) *Nalopa?khya?nam. Story of Nala, an
episode of the Maha?bha?rata: the Sanskrit text, with a copious vocabulary
and an improved version of Dean Milman's translation.*

Availability: PDF: https://archive.org/details/nalopkhyanamst00moniuoft

*- M?ller, Max* (1865) *Handbooks for the Study of Sanskrit. The Second,
Third and Fourth Books of the Hitopade?a: Containing the Sanskrit Text with
Interlinear Translation*.
Availability: PDF: http://archive.org/details/secondthirdfourt00ml

- *Handbooks for the study of Sanskrit,* edited by *Max M?ller:*

I,1 The first Book of the Hitopade?a: containing the Sanskrit Text, with
Interlinear Transliteration, Grammatical Analysis, and English Translation,
1864

Availability: PDF:  https://books.google.com/books?id=BCYpAAAAYAAJ
<https://books.google.be/books?id=BCYpAAAAYAAJ>

https://books.google.com/books?id=AX1SZj1s57QC
<https://books.google.be/books?id=AX1SZj1s57QC>

I,2 The Sanskrit Text [only] of the First Book

II,1 The Second, Third, and Fourth Books of the Hitopade?a: containing the
Sanskrit Text, with Interlinear Translation, 1865

Availability: PDF https://books.google.com/books?id=ht1CAAAAcAAJ
<https://books.google.be/books?id=ht1CAAAAcAAJ>

II,2 The Sanskrit Text [only] of the Second, Third, and Fourth Books

*- Scharf, Peter* (2003) *R?mop?khy?na -- The Story of R?ma in the
Mah?bh?rata*.

Availability: available to buy;
https://www.worldcat.org/title/ramopakhyana-the-story-of-rama-in-the-mahabharata-a-sanskrit-independent-study-reader/oclc/867822564&referer=brief_results



*Designed for use by Indian schools and universities*

*- Apte, V.S. *(pdfs of low quality; good for identifying passages, not for
directly giving to students)

*Kusumamala or a collection of choice extracts from standard Sanskrit
writers in prose and verse*.

*No. I.* Designed for students learning the ?? standard in high school (1st
ed. Poona 1891, 2nd by M.S. Apte 1894, 4th 1900, 5th 1907) 16th ed. [by
B.M. Apte] Bombay, 1929.

Availability: PDF: https://archive.org/details/in.ernet.dli.2015.224547

*No. II.* Designed for students preparing for the Matriculation
Examination, with explanatory notes, (1st ed. Poona: Arya Vijaya &
Shri-Shetkari Press 1891, 2nd by M.S. Apte 1892, 3rd 1893), 4th ed. [Poona,
1902]

Availability: PDF: https://archive.org/details/in.ernet.dli.2015.312678

Availability: PDF: https://archive.org/details/in.ernet.dli.2015.313694

5th ed. Poona: Shiralkar, 1906

Availability: PDF: https://archive.org/details/in.ernet.dli.2015.406262

Availability: PDF: https://archive.org/details/in.ernet.dli.2015.312678

21st ed. [by B.M. Apte] Bombay, 1930

Availability: PDF: https://archive.org/details/in.ernet.dli.2015.313694

*- Ashar, J. M.  *(1945) *Intermediate Sanskrit Selections* (Prescribed for
the Bombay University for 1946-47). Surat: The Popular Book Store.
*- Ashar, J. M. * (1941) *Inter Sanskrit* (Being a Critical Study of
Dasakumaracharita and the Mudrarakshasa in Questions and Answers).
Ahmedabad: Khadayata Book Depot.

- *Selections from Br?hma?as and Upani?ads*. Prescribed for the B.A.
Examination of 1967 and onwards. Bombay: The University of Bombay, 1966.
*-Banerji, H.C *(1933) *The New Method Sanskrit Reader**.*

Availability:
https://www.worldcat.org/title/new-method-sanskrit-reader/oclc/454505657&referer=brief_results

*- Belvalkar*, *S. K. *(1924) *Intermediate Prose Selections* (as
prescribed by the Bombay University for the Inter. Arts Examination in
Sanskrit for 1925 & 26). Bombay: S.K. Belvalkar.
- *Belvalkar*, *S. K. *(1934) *Supplement to the Intermediate Prose
Selections* (covering passages prescribed for 1935). Poona: Bilvakunja
Publishing House.
*- Belvalkar*, *S. K. *(1934) *The ?rauta Reader*, *Being a Selection of
Brahma?a [sic] and Other Texts bearing upon The Philosophy of Vedic
Sacrifice*. Poona: Bilvakunja Publishing House, 1934.

*- Bhattacharya, S. and ? *(1971) *New Vedic Selections*.

Availability: PDF:
https://archive.org/details/BhattacharyaSiddheshwarNewVedicSelections

*- Chatterji, K. C. *(1954) *Vedic Selections* Part 1*.*

Availability: PDF: https://archive.org/details/in.ernet.dli.2015.313676

*- Chatterji, K. C.  *(1957) *Vedic Selections* Part 3.

Availability: PDF: https://archive.org/details/in.ernet.dli.2015.313677

*- Chaubey, B.B. *(1981) *New Vedic Selections. *

Availability:
https://www.worldcat.org/title/new-vedic-selection/oclc/12762103

*- Davane, G.V., S.G. Desai* (1968) *Selections in Sanskrit: Prose and
Poetry* (Prescribed for the First Year Arts Examinations 1969-70-71).
Bombay: University of Bombay.

- *Devasthali, G.V. *(1954) *Intermediate Sanskrit Selections* (Bombay
University 1954-56). Second Edition. Bombay: Booksellers' Publishing Co.

Availability: PDF: https://archive.org/details/in.ernet.dli.2015.326224

*- Diskalkar, D. B. (*1925) *Selections from Sanskrit Inscriptions* Vol.i
Part ii.

Availability: PDF: Part i:
https://archive.org/details/in.ernet.dli.2015.126905

Availability: PDF: Vol 1 Pt ii:
https://archive.org/details/in.ernet.dli.2015.142758

*- Dravid,* *K. N. *(1924) *Sanskrit Prose Selections*, Prescribed for
Inter-Arts Examination 1925 & 1926 with Notes. [Place and publisher unknown
(title page missing)].

*- Gajendragadkar, A. B. & R. D. Karmarkar* (1927) *First Year Sanskrit
Poetic Selections*. Bombay.

Availability:
https://www.worldcat.org/search?qt=worldcat_org_all&q=%22First+year+Sanskrit+poetic+selections%22

*- Gajendragadkar, A. B. & R. D. Karmarkar* *Intermediate Sanskrit
Selections*. No. 1. (For the Years 1927 and 1929). Poona: [no publisher],
[no date].

*- Gajendragadkar, A. B. & R. D. Karmarkar* (1927) *Intermediate Sanskrit
Selections.* No. 2. 287 p. Bombay. ? see J. Charpentier, *Monde Or.* 23,
1929, 315f.

*- Gajendragadkar, A. B. & R. D. Karmarkar* (1934) *The ?rauta Reader*.

Availability: PDF: https://archive.org/details/in.ernet.dli.2015.405311

*- Harkness, H. & Visvamba Sastri*: *A Sanscrit Primer, or First Book of a
series designed to assist native students in the acquirement of a correct
and grammatical knowledge of this language.* 2+78+3 p. Madras 1827 (in
Tamil letters [not grantha?]).

------    The Second Book of the series? 128 p. Madras 1828.

------    The Third Book of the series? 120 p. Madras 1828.

------    The same in 3 vols., (or 6 vols), ed. in Telugu letters. Madras
1827.

*- Kane, P. V.* (1931) *Sa?sk?tagady?vali?: Selections from Sanskrit
prose.* 228
p. Bombay & London.

*- Kane, P. V.* (1934) *Sa?sk?tapady?vali?: Selections from Sanskrit poetry
with brief notes.* 156 p. Bombay & London.

*- Mahalinga Sastri, Y. *(1947) *A First Reader of Sanskrit**.*

Availability:
https://www.worldcat.org/title/first-reader-of-sanskrit/oclc/663301052&referer=brief_results

*- Mainkar, T.G., et al. *(1969) *F.Y.B.A. Sanskrit Prose Selections *No.
2. Poona: University of Poona.

*- Nandargikar, G. R. *(1888) *Sanskrit selections for the use of the
students preparing for the Bombay University* *Entrance Examination.*

Availability: PDF: https://archive.org/details/sanskritselecti00unkngoog

*- **Ny?y?lank?ra, N.M. *(1880) *Sahityaparichaya. or an Introduction to
Sanskrit Literature.* Part I.

Availability: PDF: http://archive.org/details/shityaparichaya00unkngoog

- *Oka, M. P.  (1923)* *Caturth? Subodhap??h?val?, or The Fourth Course of
Easy Sanskrit Readings*". Third Edition. Poona: G. Ramchandra & Co.

*- Patwardhan, M.V. et al. *(1962) *F.Y.B.A. Sanskrit Prose Selections*.
Poona: University of Poona.

*- Patwardhan, M.V. et al. *(1982) *Sa?sk?tak?vya??stravimar?a?*
[Selections in Sanskrit Poetics]. Poona: University of Poona.

- *Ramchandra*
<https://archive.org/search.php?query=creator%3A%22Nerurkar+Vasant+Ramchandra%22>*,
Nerurkar Vasant* (1914) *Senior Selections in Sanskrit Prose And Verse*

Availability: PDF:  https://archive.org/details/in.ernet.dli.2015.20551

*- Sane, P. S., M. D. Paradkar* (1969) *Selections in Sanskrit: Prose and
Poetry* (Prescribed for the First Year Arts Examinations 1970-1971-1972).
Bombay: University of Bombay.

*- Sastri, T.G. (1907) **Sanskrit Reader* (3 parts)*. *

Availability: PDF:
https://archive.org/details/Pathavali_Sanskrit_Reader_3_parts_-_T_Ganapati_Sastri1907

*- Sastri, K.L.V. * (1970) *Sa?sk?tab?l?dar?a?: Infant Reader.*

Availability: PDF:
https://archive.org/details/InfantReaderSanscritInfantReaderSamskritaBaladarsa108PagesbyK.L

*- **??str?, C?rudeva* (1957) *S?hitya-Sudh?*. Hoshi?rapura:
Vi?ve?var?nanda Sa?sth?na Prak??ana. (Vi?va Ch?tra Grantham?l?.)

*- **Suru, N. G.*: *A Sanskrit Reader.* 192?.

Availability: ?

- *Vidyabhushana, V.* (1922) *Sa?sk?ta-p??ha-m?l?. Sanskrit Reader.* 1-2.
7th ed. of pt. 1 & 5th of pt. 2. Calcutta.

*- Vidyasagar, Eshwar Chandra* (1851) *Simple Lessons*, Part. I. Compiled
for the use of the Sanskrit College of Calcutta. Calcutta: Sanskrit Press.


-- 
A N T O N I A   R U P P E L
The Cambridge Introduction to Sanskrit
Out Now: www.cambridge-sanskrit.org


-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20170706/55ec4be1/attachment.htm>

