From jmmadaio at gmail.com  Wed Nov  1 15:24:28 2017
From: jmmadaio at gmail.com (James Madaio)
Date: Wed, 01 Nov 17 16:24:28 +0100
Subject: [INDOLOGY] jIvanmukti
In-Reply-To: <CA+32jrFHe3ACgQqtxaEtrdrgnjymrM_uN3Z-PyuaKA+B4sRAfQ@mail.gmail.com>
Message-ID: <CAJZ7h_wGh+6YG4K6eguc-iy+q_pxy1SpH5V16oXT==oo=8O2BQ@mail.gmail.com>

Hi Patrick,


As you know this is a rather broad inquiry considering that *j?vanmukti* is
a term used across traditions in different ways.  Before it was used in
Advaita Ved?nta it was employed in the non-dual ?aiva context and in the
*Yoga-V?si??ha*/*Mok?op?ya* (from where it may have made transit into
Advaita Ved?ntin *samprad?ya*s as a technical term [but not as a new
conceptual notion]).


Advaita Ved?nta is not doctrinally uniform across time and space and, to
paraphrase Daya Krishna, all that is Advaita Ved?nta is not ?a?kara. It is
difficult therefore to speak across the whole tradition but I can say that
in the fourteenth century, Vidy?ra?ya, in his *J?vanmuktiviveka*, argues
that the *"j?vanmukta*" is precisely the one who has secured, stabilized or
safeguarded non-dual knowing (*j??narak??*).  So, in this case, there are
no obstacles for the one who is called a *j?vanmukta*; however, there may
be potential obstacles for  knowers of *brahman* (but they are therefore
not yet considered *j?vanmukta*s).  Antecedents of this position?i.e., that
there may be obstacles for knowers?can be found in the commentarial works
of ?a?kara, as noted here by Aleksandar.


The term *j?vanmukti*, of course, indicates something philosophically
different in other *ved?nta* traditions, as well as in *ha?ha* yogic,
*ras?yana*, and N?th-Siddha texts, etc. This is, of course, to say nothing
of regional or vernacular traditions (some of which are advaitic in
orientation) where the term is also employed.


I have included here some references that engage with the issue of
*j?vanmukti* which may, in some cases, overlap with the notion of the
?perfected body.?  (I have not listed individually the interesting articles
in the excellent volume edited by Andrew Fort and Patricia Mumme).


**



Arapura, J.G. 1987.  *Hermeneutical Essays on Ved?ntic Topics*.  Delhi:
Motilal Banarsidass.


Bansat-Boudon, Lyne. 2013. ?The contribution of Nondual ?aivism of Kashmir
to the Debate on *j?vanmukti*: A Thematic Perspective on the Question of
Periodization.? In *Periodization and Historiography of Indian Philosophy*,
ed. Eli Franco.  Wien: De Nobili Research Library, 307-326.


Das Gupta, Shashi Bhushan. 1946. *Obscure Religious Cults*. Calcutta: Firma
KLM.


Eliade, Mircea. 1958. *Yoga: Immortality and Freedom*. Translated by
Willard R. Trask. New York: Pantheon.


Fort, Andrew O. 1998. *J?vanmukti in Transformation: Embodied Liberation in
Advaita and Neo-Vedanta*. New York: State University of New York.


Fort, Andrew O., and Patricia Y. Mumme (eds.). 1996. *Living Liberation in
Hindu Thought. *Albany: State University of New York Press.


Mallinson, James and Mark Singleton.  2017.  *Roots of Yoga*.  London:
Penguin Books.


Ondra?ka, Lubom?r. 2015.  "Perfected Body, Divine Body and Other Bodies in
the N?tha-Siddha Sanskrit Texts." *Journal of Hindu Studies* 8:2, 210-232


Prajnanananda, Swami. 1992. *Is a J?vanmukta subject to ignorance*.
Kolkata: Ramakrishna Vedanta Math.


Ram-Prasad, Chakravarthi. 2001. *Knowledge and Liberation in Classical
Indian Thought*. Basingstoke: Palgrave.


Saraogi, Serbaeva Olga. 2010.  ?Liberation in life and After Death in Eary
?aiva Mantram?rgic Texts: The Problem of J?vanmukti.? In *Release from Life
? Release from Death: Indian Perspectives on Individual Liberation*, eds.,
Andreas Bigger, et. al. New York: Perter Lang, 211-234.


