[INDOLOGY] Reconstructing Indus Curry!
On Mon, Jan 18, 2016 at 9:42 PM, rajam <rajam at earthlink.net> wrote:
Rajam,
What has European discovery of curry in South India in the last 500
years has anything to do with reconstructing Indus curry? Since Vasco
De Gama anchored off the South Indian coast (in 1498) from the east
coast of Africa, the early contacts of the European sailors and
colonizers were South Indian, and several native words from South
Indian languages went into Portuguese, Dutch and English. There are
words such as  ka?hi/ka?hi in several north Indian languages as well
and it is difficult to determine the origin of these common Indian
words (Hindi: ????, Rajasthani: ?????/????, Punjabi: ?????, Gujarati:
???,  Marathi: ???).
Turmeric and Taro roots are used throughout the subcontinent and are
not exclusively special to Panjabi and Tamil cuisines or cultures. The
use of turmeric in ritual rites, in cooking and traditional medicine
is found throughout India, including East India. Taro is a plant
believed to be native to Southeast Asia, The near-universal
distribution of this root in Austroasiatic suggests that taro played
an important role in its early expansion. It is also claimed that this
word is related to #traw? which is widespread in Austronesian. For
more details, see the nice summary of the linguistic research on this
plant by Roger Blench:
http://ir.minpaku.ac.jp/dspace/bitstream/10502/4711/1/SES78_004.pdf
Suresh.
