[INDOLOGY] aja as ajaya?
Getting the names of the kings of ?ambhala correct is very important for
the Jonang order of Tibetan Buddhism, which has specialized in the
K?lacakra/?ambhala teachings. So the Jonangpa lama Khentrul Rinpoche asked
me if I could check with other Sanskritists to confirm that the name *aja*
cannot mean ?inconquerable? or ?unconquered? in accordance with the rules
of Sanskrit grammar. Since the many learned Sanskritists on this list have
not responded with a way to derive this meaning in the three days since the
question was posted, I take this as confirmed. This is a difficult problem,
because a thousand years ago two different Indian Sanskrit pandits, working
with two different Tibetan translators, apparently did take *aja* in this
meaning. Unlike with the name *harivikrama*, we cannot trace how the error
with *aja* arose (if it is an error).
The case of *harivikrama* is comparatively simple. This name occurs with
another name in this anu??ubh p?da: ?r?palo harivikrama?. Sanskrit verses
had to be translated into Tibetan verses with a fixed number of syllables,
seven for a p?da in the ?loka or anu??ubh meter. So the eight syllables of
this anu??ubh p?da were translated into these seven Tibetan syllables: dpal
skyong seng ge rnam par gnon. Because the number of Tibetan syllables was
limited by the meter, the syllables giving necessary grammatical
information were omitted, leaving no way to know where the names divide. At
some point, annotations were added, dividing this p?da into three names
rather than two. So the Tibetan tradition got two kings, *hari* and
*vikrama*, for one, *harivikrama*. All eight Sanskrit manuscripts that I
used 31 years ago have *harivikrama?* (not *harir vikrama?*), as do the two
that have become available to me since then. These ten include six old
palm-leaf manuscripts, two of which had been used in Tibet, as seen by the
Tibetan handwriting on their opening leaves.
The case of *aja* is more complex. Even though the p?da of the ?loka that
*aja?* occurs in lacks a syllable, samudravijayo 'ja?, all ten Sanskrit
manuscripts have *aja?*, not *ajaya?*. This name occurs again in prose in
the *Vimalaprabh?* commentary on 1.27, three times, so the form *aja* is
there confirmed. Yet the canonical Tibetan translation by the Indian pandit
Soman?tha and the Tibetan translator 'Bro Shes rab grags, revised by Shong
ston, has *rgyal dka'*. Similarly, the Tibetan translation by the Indian
pandit Samanta?r? and the Tibetan translator Rwa Chos rab has *ma pham pa*,
as reported by Bu ston in his annotated edition of the *Vimalaprabh?*. Both
mean ?unconquerable? or ?unconquered.? Here we do not have an error that is
traceable to the transmission process, as we do with *harivikrama*, but
rather a discrepancy in the translation itself.
In the last few years two other old Tibetan translations of the
*Vimalaprabh?* that had recently been recovered were published, and part of
a third. The translation by Tsa mi Sangs rgyas grags, said to be the only
Tibetan ever to become abbot of N?land? university in India, has
transliterated the name into Tibetan characters (*a dza*) rather than
translated it. The first ever Tibetan translation, by the Indian pandit
Bhadrabodhi and the Tibetan translator Gyi jo Zla ba'i 'od zer and his
students, has the incomprehensible *nyi ma'i*, ?of the sun,? at the end of
the p?da in the list of kings (probably a scribal error in the one
manuscript we have), and *chu skyes*, ?water-born,? in the three
occurrences in the commentary on 1.27. A third translation, of which we
have only the first chapter (so we do not know who made it), has *rgyal ba*,
?conqueror,? in the list of kings (probably a scribal error for *rgyal dka'*
in the one manuscript we have), and *rgyal dka'*, ?unconquerable,? in the
three occurrences at 1.27.
The question now is whether the name *aja* could stand for *ajaya* in some
Prakrit or even vernacular language, probably from northeastern India. If
we reject Gyi jo?s *chu skyes*, ?water-born,? as an erroneous translation,
a simple mistake, we are left with figuring out how three translators took
*aja* as ?unconquerable? or ?unconquered.? Is this, too, just an erroneous
translation? Significantly, Tsa mi did not translate the name but only
transliterated it. This indicates that he did not take it as
?unconquerable? or ?unconquered,? but neither did he take it as ?unborn,?
as we might have expected. My apologies for the long post, but this is
important to me and to Khentrul Rinpoche, and I wanted to provide enough
background information to possibly lead to a solution to this problem.
Best regards,
David Reigle
Colorado, U.S.A.
On Sat, Aug 20, 2016 at 9:51 PM, David and Nancy Reigle <dnreigle at gmail.com>
wrote:
