[INDOLOGY] 'Vedic' astrology
Bill,
I have read and re-read that section, and searched for various phrases 
within the book as a whole (searchable PDF files are a boon), but I 
can't find any mention of 'Vedic astrology' or anything like it. Dikshit 
seems to have a western academic understanding of 'Vedic' as a 
historical period, and he claims that the 'seeds' of a predictive system 
are present in Atharvajyoti?a, but he is also very clear that such a 
system is not the one based on the twelve-sign zodiac, although he 
thinks it 'probable' that the latter system, when it was imported into 
India, was influenced by the parallel, indigenous system. (Which 
undoubtedly it was, if perhaps not to the extent that Dikshit would have 
liked to think. The nak?atras are used in hor?, after all.) This is 
stated at the beginning of p. 100.
In my view this is quite different from the development that we have 
seen over the past few decades, where practitioners themselves label all 
Indian astrology (often including the T?jika school) as 'Vedic', 
typically without any idea of that label referring to a particular 
historical period -- if it is used in any historical sense, it is with 
reference to a vague, mythical past. 'Vedic' is used here simply in the 
sense of 'traditional Indian', the implied idea being a tradition that 
is not only ancient and unbroken, but essentially unchanged (and, as 
Robert has pointed out, sanctioned by Brahmanic authority).
Jean-Michel's mention of so-called Vedic mathematics in this context 
seems very relevant; does anyone know when that designation first 
appears? Also, of course, Dagmar's reference to ?yurveda, though I don't 
think anyone has yet decided to call that system 'Vedic medicine' (or 
have they?).
Martin
Den 2016-11-15 kl. 21:45, skrev Bill Mak:
