From baums at lmu.de  Thu Dec  1 19:22:00 2016
From: baums at lmu.de (Stefan Baums)
Date: Thu, 01 Dec 16 20:22:00 +0100
Subject: [INDOLOGY] Sagar Journal Call for Papers
Message-ID: <20161201192200.GN6061@deepthought>

Forwarded on behalf of the editors:

--------------------------------------------------

SAGAR: A South Asia Research Journal is now accepting
full-length research articles and translations for
its next print volume, to be published in Spring
2017. The theme of this issue is ?Space.? We welcome
papers that:

Analyze South Asian history, culture, politics, arts,
and society in comparison with other regions of the
world

Look at space in terms of scope, latitude, margin,
position, range, and location

Engage different kinds of narratives that can be
located in but not restricted to local, global,
(trans)national, institutional, digital/virtual,
media, performative, literary, domestic, religious,
political, cultural, social, ecological, and communal
spaces

The extended deadline for submission is December 15,
2016. Please send your manuscripts or questions to
sagarjournal <sagarjournal at gmail.com>@gmail.com
<sagarjournal at gmail.com>. Submissions should be:

8,000-10,000 words and include a 250-word abstract

Translations should be 3,000-6,000 words, preceded by
a 1,200-1,500 word introduction contextualizing the
text or excerpt.

Manuscripts are expected to follow APA guidelines.

The entire article, including block quotations and
notes, should be double-spaced.

Submissions should include:

Two files in Microsoft Word or PDF format. Both files
should include:

Article submission

Publishable images with credits, if any. Each
photograph is equivalent to 250 words.

For translations, a scanned copy of the original
source text.

One of the files should also include a title page
with the author?s name and email address as well as a
100-word biography of the author. The second file
will be for blind submission and cannot contain the
name or contact information of the author.

Sagar publishes innovative academic writing in the
humanities and social sciences of South Asia, as well
as critical translations. It was established in 1993
and is published annually by the South Asia Institute
at the University of Texas at Austin. Submissions for
our print issue are blindly evaluated by an editorial
board of advanced scholars in the field.

Sagar is listed on EBSCO databases, which are used
for academic research by tens of thousands of
institutions worldwide. This will substantially
enhance the visibility of articles published in the
journal.

Charlotte Giles, Paromita Pain, and Saleha Parvaiz

Chief Editors, *Sagar: A South Asia Research Journal
*

sagarjournal at gmail.com

sagarjournal.org

--------------------------------------------------

-- 
Dr. Stefan Baums
Institute for Indian and Tibetan Studies
Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich





