From rsalomon at uw.edu  Fri Sep 27 21:27:49 2019
From: rsalomon at uw.edu (Richard G. Salomon)
Date: Fri, 27 Sep 19 14:27:49 -0700
Subject: [INDOLOGY] Position in Buddhist Studies at University of Washington
Message-ID: <CA+bmU3bsmN1BnJBvDrjwzgKxrLEZ52yiroqj7-pN+U3Ng_szMQ@mail.gmail.com>

Dear list members,

Please bring this opportunity to the attention of any qualified persons:

*ASSISTANT PROFESSOR*, Department of Asian Languages and Literature,
University of Washington, Seattle, beginning Autumn, 2020. This
tenure-track appointment, full-time appointment (9-month service period) is
in Buddhist Studies with a focus on original language textual studies.

University of Washington faculty engage in research, teaching, and service.
Given the tradition of the Department of Asian Languages and Literature in
the area of Indian/South Asian Buddhism, research and teaching areas may
include Indian/South Asian Buddhism and texts in original languages such as
Sanskrit and Pali or other Prakrits. Teaching duties will include offerings
at the undergraduate and graduate levels, in addition to instruction in the
languages relevant to the applicant?s area of research. Undergraduate
offerings will include general courses on Buddhist literature and related
areas as well as on more specialized topics. At the graduate level,
offerings will include seminars on specific issues or texts and in-depth
text-reading classes that may reflect the applicant?s specific areas of
research specialization.

*Qualifications *

Applicants must demonstrate a strong record of research and teaching in the
field of Buddhist Studies as well as a high level of command of one or more
of the major languages of the Buddhist tradition. Applicants must have a
PhD, or foreign equivalent degree, by the date of appointment.



*Application Instructions *

Applications, including a cover letter, curriculum vitae, statement of
research and teaching interests, a diversity statement, and three letters
of recommendation, should be submitted electronically to
apply.interfolio.com/66398. For further questions on the position, the
status of the opening, or disability accommodations, contact Prof. Collett
Cox at collett at uw.edu. Priority will be given to applications received
before *December 1, 2019*.



The University of Washington is an affirmative action and equal opportunity
employer. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for
employment without regard to race, color, creed, religion, national origin,
sex, sexual orientation, marital status, pregnancy, genetic information,
gender identity or expression, age, disability, or protected veteran status.


The University of Washington is committed to building diversity among its
faculty, librarian, staff, and student communities, and articulates that
commitment in the UW Diversity Blueprint (
http://www.washington.edu/diversity/diversity-blueprint/). Additionally,
the University?s Faculty Code recognizes faculty efforts in research,
teaching and/or service that address diversity and equal opportunity as
important contributions to a faculty member?s academic profile and
responsibilities (
https://www.washington.edu/admin/rules/policies/FCG/FCCH24.html#2432).



*ASSISTANT PROFESSOR*, Department of Asian Languages and Literature,
University of Washington, Seattle, beginning Autumn, 2020. This
tenure-track appointment, full-time appointment (9-month service period) is
in Buddhist Studies with a focus on original language textual studies.

University of Washington faculty engage in research, teaching, and service.
Given the tradition of the Department of Asian Languages and Literature in
the area of Indian/South Asian Buddhism, research and teaching areas may
include Indian/South Asian Buddhism and texts in original languages such as
Sanskrit and Pali or other Prakrits. Teaching duties will include offerings
at the undergraduate and graduate levels, in addition to instruction in the
languages relevant to the applicant?s area of research. Undergraduate
offerings will include general courses on Buddhist literature and related
areas as well as on more specialized topics. At the graduate level,
offerings will include seminars on specific issues or texts and in-depth
text-reading classes that may reflect the applicant?s specific areas of
research specialization.

*Qualifications *

Applicants must demonstrate a strong record of research and teaching in the
field of Buddhist Studies as well as a high level of command of one or more
of the major languages of the Buddhist tradition. Applicants must have a
PhD, or foreign equivalent degree, by the date of appointment.



*Application Instructions *

Applications, including a cover letter, curriculum vitae, statement of
research and teaching interests, a diversity statement, and three letters
of recommendation, should be submitted electronically to
apply.interfolio.com/66398. For further questions on the position, the
status of the opening, or disability accommodations, contact Prof. Collett
Cox at collett at uw.edu. Priority will be given to applications received
before *December 1, 2019*.



The University of Washington is an affirmative action and equal opportunity
employer. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for
employment without regard to race, color, creed, religion, national origin,
sex, sexual orientation, marital status, pregnancy, genetic information,
gender identity or expression, age, disability, or protected veteran status.


The University of Washington is committed to building diversity among its
faculty, librarian, staff, and student communities, and articulates that
commitment in the UW Diversity Blueprint (
http://www.washington.edu/diversity/diversity-blueprint/). Additionally,
the University?s Faculty Code recognizes faculty efforts in research,
teaching and/or service that address diversity and equal opportunity as
important contributions to a faculty member?s academic profile and
responsibilities (
https://www.washington.edu/admin/rules/policies/FCG/FCCH24.html#2432).


-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20190927/14ac9a46/attachment.htm>

