writers to denote a processional image b) From the references to his
sitting in the Tevaciriya mantapam, issuing orders etc., it seems likely
that the reference is to an anthropomorphic figure and not an aniconic
one." Nowhere does she indicate that the term V*i?a?kar *has anything
to do with
Siva's nudity or his virile lingam.

Furthermore, the Sanskrit usage of  the words *vi?a?ka* in meaning of
pretty, and *vi?a?ga*  for clever, and corresponding Assamese word
*biri?ga* ?beautiful? do not show any connotation of nudity or relationship
with lingam.

Let us move to his text on page 7:

In old Tamil texts, vi?ai refers to the virile male of animals - bovids,
caprids, antelopes, elephants.


Tamil Lexicon thinks that the word *vi?ai* used in the meaning of bull and
other male animals may be related to *v??a. *Ganesan hasn't discussed or
discarded such connection at all. Please note that the *?* ~ *?*
correspondence is common in Sanskrit and Tamil words. For example, *vi?aya*
~ *vi?aiyam*.

It is a verbal noun from vi?ai- 'to enlarge, to thicken, to stiffen up, to
stand with pride?.


Tamil Lexicon doesn't list this as the primary meaning at all. The primary
meaning of *vi?u*- to leave, quit, part with is found in several Dravidian
languages [DEDR 5393]. The meaning of "stiff" for *vi?ai* is not found in
other Dravidian languages. If I may speculate, I think, the supplementary
meaning Ganesan gives is perhaps related to *vi?-/*vi?- [DEDR 5439] (
*vi?aippu* numbness, stiffness, to grow stiff as from cold, become numb,
shiver as from cold;). *?* > *?* is not uncommon in the Dravidian
languages.

Almost throughout the paper, I kept saying to myself "Tamil is not
Proto-Dravidian, Tamil is not Proto-Dravidian!". You cannot reconstruct a
Dravidian root without comparative evidence from other
languages, preferably based on the data found two different subgroups. This
paper can be rejected purely on that basis.

 In Tamil, vi?ai- > vi?a?ku- "to be erect (as lingam), male beauty,
masculinity, virility, fertile." Compare vi?ai:vi?a?ku with verb pairs like
(i) ma?ai: ma?a?ku ?water embankment, to block?, (ii) ki?ai: ki?a?ku
?animal shed, godown?, (iii) malai:mala?ku ?to be confused?, (iv) tirai:
tira?ku ?screen?, (v) i?ai: i?a?ku ?to join?, (vi) picai: pica?ku ?to
knead? etc.


Addition of the formative suffix -ku is well known in the Dravidian
languages (see Krishnamurti 1997), but without establishing that *vi?ai*
has anything to do with lingam, this equation falls flat on its face.

?iva is called in Tamil bhakti poems like Tevaram as vi?a?kar, and a lingam
(usually emerald) is kept near Somaskanda in vi?a?kar temples which is
worshipped with reverence as vi?a?kar [15].


Here Ganesan refers to Rajeshwari Ghose's book [15], but it is clear that
Ganesan hasn't read her conclusions or purposefully avoids mentioning them.
She clearly states that V*i?a?kar* is likely a reference to an
anthropomorphic figure and not an aniconic one. She further states that
"the present-day association of the term V*i?a?ka- *with the *li**?**ga* of
precious stone has a close parallel in the nataraja of chindambaram, where
a linga made of crystal called the Candramaulisvara occupies a similar
ritual status."

vi?a?kar, standing for either male organ (lingam) or gharial snout, gives
rise to Tamil names for gharial, vi?a?kar (> i?a?kar).


This is big semantic leap without any justification. *vi?a?kar* cannot
stand for a gharial snout. *vi?a?kar* is clearly a honorific form of
*vi?a?ka**?. *The -*ar* suffix in the Dravidian languages is a human plural
suffix (also used as honorific affix), and cannot be used for non-human
gharial. Therefore, *vi?a?kar > i?a?kar *is entirely untenable.

This word is borrowed into Sanskrit as a loan from Dravidian: vi?ha?ka ?
person of dissolute habits, voluptuary? (Cf. vi?alai in Sangam poems).


Just an opinion and speculation.

In Tamil, i?akkar ?indecent words; terms denoting things or actions too
obscene to be uttered in good society?.

*i?akkar* has something to do with *i?akku* 'Rude, saucy, disrespectful'
[DEDR 433], which, I think, is missing a Telugu cognate *?ekku*. Prima
facie, the words related to *vi?-a-?ku- 'beauty' and **i?-a-kku* 'Rude' appear
to be derived from entirely different, unrelated etymons, and should be
treated as such until there is substantial convincing evidence. Even if
they are related, it doesn't say anything about the word *i?a?kar *in the
meaning of crocodile or gharial.

In summary, other than wild speculation and wishful thinking, Ganesan
hasn't presented any convincing evidence to make a connection between the snout
of gharial and phallic linga of Siva. I think much of Ganesan's confusion
stems from the fact that *nakkar* 'nude person, Siva' in Tamil (*nakka*- <
Skt. *nagna *'nude'), is confusingly similar to Sanskrit *nakra* 'crocodile'.
The word *nagna* 'nude, naked' clearly has cognates in other Indo-European
languages (Old Persian **nagna*-, Greek *gymnos*, Latin *nudus*, Lithuanian
*nuogas*, Old Church Slavonic *nagu*-, Russian *nagoi*, Old Irish *nocht*,
Welsh *noeth* "bare, naked") whereas *nakra* 'crocodile' appears to be
limited to the languages of Indian linguistic area.

Regards,
Suresh.


-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20150124/8821c094/attachment.htm>

