[INDOLOGY] Query
Dear Patrick, I'm back at my desk, and this is the reference that I was
thinking of:
@Book{kita-body,
  title                    = {The Body of the Musician. An Annotated
Translation and Study of the Pi??otpatti-prakara?a of ??rn?gadeva's
Sa?g?taratn?kara},
  address                  = {Bonn etc.},
  author                   = {Makoto Kitada},
  publisher                = {Peter Lang},
  year                     = {2012},
  isbn                     = {9783034303194},
  abstract                 = {The Sang?taratn?kara (?The Ocean of Music?)
written by ??rngadeva in the 13th century is the most important theoretical
work on Indian classical music. Its prologue, the Pindotpatti-prakarana
(?The Section of the Arising of the Human Body?), deals with the Indian
science of the human body, i.e. embryology, anatomy, and the Hathayogic
heory of Cakras. The sources of this work are found in the classical
medical texts (?yurveda) such as Caraka, Su?ruta and V?gbhata, the
Hathayogic texts as well as in the encyclopaedic texts (Pur?na). After
philologically analyzing the mutual relation and background of these texts,
the author demonstrates the reasons why the human body is described in this
musicological work. His investigation reveals the Indian mystic thought of
body and sound. This study, although an Indological one, is an attempt to
answer the universal question what music is, i.e. how music is created in
the human body, what the effect of music on the human body is, and what
music aims at. The second half of the book consists of a translation of the
original text of the Pindotpatti-prakarana, including
commentaries, with plenty of annotations.},
  contents                 = {Contents: Sa?g?taratn?kara (SR) and its
Pi??otpatti-prakara?a ? ?ivag?t? (?G), the text parallel to the SR?s
embryologico-anatomical verses ? The sources of the SR. Common source text
of SR and ?G ? Comparison with medical (?yurveda) and non-medical texts ?
Anatomical theory of vocal manifestation by Indian ancient musicologists ?
Embryology in musicological works.},
}
?
