Svami Satya Prakash Sarasvati and Satyakam Vidyalankar?s translation of the
?gveda was published in 12 physical volumes, 1977-1987, being only the
third complete English translation of the ?gveda to be published. It was
preceded by that of H. H. Wilson in 6 volumes, 1850-1888, and that of Ralph
T. H. Griffith in 4 volumes, 1889-1892. It avowedly follows the Arya Samaj
line of interpretation, which treats the various Vedic gods (Agni, Indra,
Mitra, etc.) as being names for the one God, thus translating them all as
?God.? The Arya Samaj line of interpretation specifically rejects S?ya?a?s
commentary, regarding its interpretations as being late and incorrect.
Wilson in his pioneering translation relied fully on S?ya?a?s commentary,
following its interpretations throughout. Recently R. L. Kashyap, who
produced the fourth complete English translation of the ?gveda (published
in 12 physical volumes, 2004-2009), pointed out that Satya Prakash
Sarasvati and Satyakam Vidyalankar?s translation largely copies Wilson?s
translation. This is ironic, since replacing the names Agni, Indra, Mitra,
etc., with God is not enough to remove S?ya?a?s interpretations from it.
On the plagiarism aspect, compare the statement made in the current article
that Luis provided a link to, where Andrew J. Nicholson writes about Rajiv
Malhotra: ?There he steals my words but replaces the name ?Vijnanabhikshu?
(a 16th century Bhedabhedavadin) with ?Vivekananda? (a 19th century
Advaitin), as if they were interchangeable.? Satya Prakash Sarasvati and
Satyakam Vidyalankar?s translation has been reprinted in 2008 and 2011, and
remains available. As far as I know, no one has called upon the publishers
to address this issue.
Best regards,
David Reigle
Colorado, U.S.A.
