AW: [INDOLOGY] Yoga Body, a book by Mark Singleton
(Dear Pihlpip)
The lexical quotation by Dominic (with a c) was 
raising the interesting question of the 
possibility to linguistically see at least two 
different words 'yoga' in Sanskrit, therefore 
homonymous.
The passage of Singleton's book provided by 
Dominik (with a k) is indeed to be understood as 
'yoga' in Sanskrit as having not the same 
meaning(s) than 'yoga' as used in western 
languages for denoting popular practices. But 
since the latter (in English as in French, etc.) 
is a borrowing from the Sanskrit word, the use of 
the term 'homonymy' appears to me in this case 
simply meaningless, as it would be the case for 
'ayurveda', 'tantra', 'vastushastra', etc. when 
the words are used in western languages for 
denoting practices/discourses which are really 
far from the extensive/comprehensive meanings of 
the original Sanskrit words.
With best wishes,
C.
http://www.uclouvain.be/christophe.vielle
http://belgianindology.blogs.lalibre.be/
http://www.uclouvain.be/356389.html
Sign-up to Dropbox using the following link and get 2.25 gigabytes of
storage free.
http://www.dropbox.com/referrals/NTEwOTE3Nzg1OQ
