Mac-Devanagari
A few more specifics on Mac diacritics and Devanagari:
I find the EasyUnicode keyboard layout more convenient than the "US-
extended" layout.  Easy Unicode can be downloaded by the following link:
http://depts.washington.edu/ebmp/downloads/EasyUnicode4.zip?PHPSESSID=b00d228981ebaeba23070d313b87675f
Follow the readme instructions to put the layout files in your keyboard
folder, then you can go to Preferences --> International --> Input Menu
and select the EasyUnicode check box from the list (if it isn't there you
might need to restart the computer).  This is also a good time to make
sure the check boxes for Keyboard Viewer and Character Palette are
checked.  This lets you see and change the keyboard of choice on the top
right of your desktop.  You can also set a keyboard shortcut in this Input
Menu window.
Once the EasyUnicode keyboard is checked, you simply switch to it (by
clicking the flag or using a keyboard shortcut), then open any application
(such as TextEdit) and begin typing. By holding down the option/alt key
and pushing "a" you get a long a.  The rest are intuitive but are also
listed in the readme file.
The Devanagari keyboard (I prefer "DevanagariQwerty") can also be
activated in the previously used input menu.  You can change to it through
the flag at the top right as before, and type in any application. To form
a conjunct simply type the first consonant, followed by an "f" then the
next consonant.  The correct conjunct will automatically by generated. 
Simplicity itself.
Good Luck,
Michael Slouber
UC Berkeley
