From roheko at MSN.COM  Sat Jan 10 08:09:08 1998
From: roheko at MSN.COM (Rolf Heiner Koch)
Date: Sat, 10 Jan 98 09:09:08 +0100
Subject: Indra and heat
Message-ID: <161227034698.23782.9534764232991400979.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

It is well known that we might get Indra's
attention as a benefit for acquiring internal
tapas (heat) and for external heat too. The
following story I found in a 5th century Jain
source. I suppose there are some traditional
aspects hidden, which I am actually not able to
understand. Probably anyone of the members can
give me a tip?
The charioteer Naaga is still childless together
with his wife Sulasaa (a laywomen) and he worships
Indra, Skandha etc (indakhanda-aadi) for the
purpose of a child while his wife (a saavikaa) is
unwillingly, adressing him: Looka for another wife
(annaM pariNehi). He answered, that this is
necessary for a son (jadi tava putto tenaM
kajjam). In following the advice of a doctor he
cooked 3time 100000 kuDavas of sesamoil (tenaM
vijjovadeseNaM tihiM satasahassehiM tiNNi
tella-kulavaa pakkaa). Indra noticed her
(sakkaalae saMlaavo: erisaa Sulasaa saavika?). He
appeared disguised as a Jaina monk (devo aagato
saadhuu). Because he appeared before Sulasaa like
a Jain she welcomed him asking for the purpose of
his visit. Indra: You have 100000 of sesamoil,
give it to me (tumha satasahassapaakaM tellaM taM
dehi). Three times she brought a pattaka, three
times it broke (vejjeNa uvadiTThaM. "demi"
atigataa. otaarentiie bhiHHaM pattagaM. bitiyaM
gahaaya niggataa. taM pi bhinnaM. taiyaM pi
bhinnaM). Indra was satisfied and handed over to
her 32 pills (tuTTho devo: saahati jathaa-vidhiM
battiisaM guliyaao deti). Take one pill after one,
you will get 32 sons (kameNa khaaejjaasi.
battiisaM puttaa hohinti), if you get any problems
I will come again (jadaa ya te kiMci payoaNaM
taahe saMbharejjaasi to ehaami). She took all 32
pills at one time, became ill, started the
kayotsarga, Indra returned, insulted her in a
friendly manner, assisted her in getting calm
(zaanti) and announced to the birth of 32 sons at
one time. The sons became closed friends of
Bhimbhasaara ZreNika and died during a war.
Any association is welcome, especially the fact
that the non-Jain husband Naaga produced the heat
(for his Jain-wife), Indra noticed her, and three
times she tried to bring a pattaka of oil (just
testing her strongness?)
The story of Srucaavatii in the Mahaabhaarata
(9.47) seems to be not relevant.

Mfg RHK
roheko at msn.com




