From Vaidix at AOL.COM  Wed Mar  4 10:06:20 1998
From: Vaidix at AOL.COM (Vaidix)
Date: Wed, 04 Mar 98 05:06:20 -0500
Subject: Indo-Aryan Invasion (focussed discussion)
Message-ID: <161227036404.23782.3396314849552251468.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

Hello everyone,

I accept V. Sundaresan's point about Vedic people's possible disregard of
morals.  The morals that are followed at individual level may not be followed
by a group.  Also in any society at any time certain things (like
discrimination of lower castes or other powerless classes) is not recognized
as a immoral, even though it is immoral.  The so-called lower castes in Vedic
society (more so in the later Hindu society) and other weaker sections like
women were probably disadvantaged.  However all this improper treatment is
justified by the uneven laws that were written, so it is legal in some
perverse sense!  But there is little evidence that Vedic tribes or Hindu
society went against their own laws.  Further, the laws regarding wars and
battles (ex: stopping the battle at sunset and cultural exchange of opponents
before sunrise etc) were quite old as per Mahabharata.  Such laws were at
least practiced for many thousands of years otherwise they would not be
accepted as a norm.  If that is the case, oppression of one society by another
is impossible (in case of an invasion by vedic tribes).  If it is an
intrusion, the previously existing population would be so miniscule compared
to the waves of intruders that the prior population would cease to have a
history any more.  The present day American Indians can not possibly hope to
create another Mayan civilization in the middle of the concrete jungle created
by the intruders!

S. Krishna's question on invasion vs intrusion:  As the American Indians did
not have the modern technology, the European conquest of Americas can not be
called invasion precisely because the resistance is not a matching one.  It is
more of an intrusion.

Assuming the Aryan Dravidian conflict ever happened, if the so-called
Dravidians existing before were well equipped, it can be called Aryan
invasion.  If it is an invasion, and if the invaded population was culturally
different from the invading one, there is very little chance the invaded
population accepting the culture of invaders let alone sing the heroic songs
of invaders who attacked them.

Look at Israel, the people of this tiny country were displaced some time after
the Biblical creation of 4000BC during the time of old testament (let us
assume an average of 2000BC when the land conflicts between various tribes
started).  Now the matter is an international dispute!  I agree that Israel is
a religious center of three major religions and a strategic post for control
of oil; still it does not convince me.  When a tiny country's population gets
displaced 4000 years ago (from now) it results in a major international
dispute, but when an Aryan population invades and massacres Dravidians around
the same time, the invaded people happily accept the Aryan gods and live
together harmoniously for next five centuries! ... and to add insult to injury
the invading population records their conquests in the form of RGveda and
Dravidians which sing happily together!  Give me a break.

Didn't somebody say the stories of RGveda were older than RGveda itself?!?!
Then why are Dasyus (if they are Dravidians) mentioned in RGveda?  The German/
European scholars had already spelt out their opinion that Dasyus are probably
aboriginal Dravidian slaves.  Now it is my turn.  In my opinion Dasyu has
nothing to dAsA (slave) at all.  Dasyu may be a proper name of a tribe the
Indo Aryans were always in conflict with.  It may be a European tribe of
RGvedic period, possibly an antecedent to Deutch.  Why was this possibility
not even thought of?!?  Didn't it ever occur to Prof Max Mueller? or was it a
cover up?  The RGveda never mentions Dasyus in a derogatory manner, the
references were always fit for describing an equal opponent .  (Most of the
derogatory words such as barbarians, robbers etc were used by interpreters and
translators like Griffith).  Dasyus were probably a heroic tribe with whom the
Vedic tribes had many conflcits (which explains the common lingustics strata).
If so then the Dravidians (who were the first to leave for the new Indian
lands) have every reason to sing RGvedic songs in memory of their conflicts.

Unlike the proponents of Aryan Invasion who want to repeat the same lie each
time hoping that it will become a fact, I would not repeat the contents of
this mail without a new piece of evidence.

Regards.
Bhadraiah Mallampalli
http://members.aoo.com/vaidix




