more good stories
Dear List,
Regarding the good stories that have been told recently about great 
scholars like R. Jakobson, V. Kiparsky, R. Austerlitz and Cal Watikins, 
I have an anecdote that may amuse some list members.   Some ten years 
ago I found myself giving a series of talks on Sanskrit and Indian 
Culture sponsored by the New Hampshire Humanities Council.  By chance, 
one of the attendees at these talks was the granddaughter of Charles 
Lanman, who faithfully attended, along with her husband, the entire 
series of nine weekly talks.  I was struck by the fact that Lanman's 
granddaughter, herself then perhaps in her 70's, was very pleased to 
know that I had been introduced to Sanskrit literature by means of her 
grandfather's Sanskrit Reader, but also by the fact that she herself had 
not seen a copy of it since childhood.  Since I had several copies of 
Lanman's Reader in hand [I used to buy up all copies that used to appear 
in the Berkeley bookstores when I studied there], I gave her one as a 
gift.  This led to an extensive discussion of Lanman's impact on early 
American Indology, which his granddaughter was eager to learn about. 
Since I was planning to give a paper at the AOS conference in Baltimore 
in that year, I promised to solicit stories of Lanman's career at 
Harvard for her.   As it turns out,  Cal Watkins was a great source of  
Harvard folklore regarding Lanman and his [literally] subterranean 
contacts with Henry Clarke Warren, etc., which delighted  Lanman's 
granddaughter and her family in general [as she told me].
The point is that I think that someone should sit down with Cal Watkins 
and get him to record all of the Sanskritist and IE folklore that he has 
privy to.  It would greatly enlighten us about the formative period of 
American Indology.
Best wishes,
George Thompson
Paul Kiparsky wrote:
