From wedemeyer at UCHICAGO.EDU  Tue Aug 25 19:36:15 2009
From: wedemeyer at UCHICAGO.EDU (Christian K. Wedemeyer)
Date: Tue, 25 Aug 09 14:36:15 -0500
Subject: JOB> Associate Director, South Asia Language Resource Center,              University of Chicago
Message-ID: <161227087454.23782.8690526395057458205.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

Position Title: Associate Director, South Asia Language Resource  
Center, University of Chicago

General Summary: Reporting to the Director of the South Asia Language  
Resource Center (SALRC), the Associate Director is responsible for  
ensuring the effective operation of the body. The SALRC is a  
collaborative effort funded by a grant from the U.S. Department of  
Education's International Education and Graduate Programs Service. The  
Language Resource Center at the University of Chicago is one of  
fifteen nationwide that exist to improve the capacity to teach and  
learn foreign languages effectively. SALRC primarily focuses on the  
needs concerning South Asian language pedagogy in American universities.

The Associate Director is charged with program planning and execution,  
policy making, grants development and administration, management of  
the Center's activities - such as the annual Grants competitions,  
Language Pedagogy Workshops, annual pedagody journal South Asia  
Language Pedagogy and Technology - along with coordination with  
national resource organizations and other relevant institutions. The  
Associate Director will also be engaged in management of the budget,  
and supervision of the Program and Grants Coordinator.

A cover letter, resume, reference contact information and a writing  
sample as described at the end of the 'Qualifications' section below  
are required.

Qualifications: Bachelor's degree required; master's or higher  
preferred; a strong academic background especially in teaching  
preferred; a minimum of three years of experience in a position of  
comparable responsibility and initiative preferred; experience with  
websites and databases preferred; supervisory experience preferred;  
experience with fundraising preferred; grants management experience  
preferred; strong self-motivated work-ethic, attention to detail, and  
excellent organizational, administrative and interpersonal skills  
required; ability to maintain confidentiality required; ability to  
manage finances required; ability to work occasional weekends or  
evenings required; ability to travel if needed required; the ability  
to implement major initiatives such as conferences, grant proposals,  
and outreach events required; demonstrated interest in the South Asia  
region preferred; knowledge of or teaching experience in a South Asian  
language preferred.

A cover letter, resume, reference contact information and a writing  
sample as described here are required to be considered for this  
position. For the writing sample, please describe your role and  
responsibilities in a similar position to that of the Associate  
Director's. Also describe a project you undertook in this role. What  
was the project, what role did you play and what types of things did  
you do in this project?

Interested applicants must apply via the University's on-line  
application system which can be found at the following: http://jobs.uchicago.edu/ 
  and search for requisition number 082752


The University of Chicago is an  Affirmative Action / Equal  
Opportunity Employer.




