From steiner at staff.uni-marburg.de  Sun Apr  6 15:35:28 2014
From: steiner at staff.uni-marburg.de (Roland Steiner)
Date: Sun, 06 Apr 14 17:35:28 +0200
Subject: =?utf-8?Q?Re:_[INDOLOGY]_Kath=C4=81sarits=C4=81gara_1.1.10-11?=
In-Reply-To: <1f07d2ffcd7f2e97bcd6160b372c871a@fabularasa.dk>
Message-ID: <20140406173528.Horde.hoRtmplrh7T5WVE8QDSymA1@home.staff.uni-marburg.de>

See also J.S. Speyer: Studies about the Kath?sarits?gara, Amsterdam,  
1908, esp. p. 22 f.:

"My interpretation of ?l. 11 is different from that of L?vi. This is  
partly in consequence of a various reading, partly because he  
misunderstood the meaning of the words aucitya and anvaya. As to the  
difference of reading, vidh?yate (Durgapr.'s ed.) seems preferable to  
abhidh?yate (Brockhaus); but in 1886 the ed. of Durgapr. had not yet  
appeared. Aucitya does not mean 'les convenances litt?raires'; it is  
the technical term to signify 'appropriateness' [p. 23] taken in the  
widest sense of the word and bearing as well on the different objects,  
characters, individualities to be represented in a poetical  
composition as on the adorning implements and the choice of words,  
expressions and images. Aucity?nvaya, then, is the same as  
aucity?nvitatvam, literally 'the being provided with appropriateness'.  
L?vi also misunderstood k?vy???asya yojan?. Ma?kowski rightly objects  
that the sing. k?vy???asya cannot at any rate mean 'chacune des  
sections du po?me' [...], but his own interpretation, that k?vy???a  
should be referred to some special part of the poem, is right neither.  
To catch the meaning of k?vy???a, it must be compared with dev???a,  
a???vatara?a and the like. Somadeva declares that he does not claim  
the pretension of making a k?vya out of the B?hatkath?, he has only  
admixed a small portion of k?vya qualities to the simple collection of  
popular tales. In other terms, a??a has here the signification not  
unlike ?gandhi at the end of compounds taught by P??ini V, 4, 136, 'a  
tinge of', 'a little of'. My translation of ?l. 11 is accordingly: 'I  
have taken care to preserve the appropriateness (of description,  
diction etc. of the original work) and I have added to it some  
qualities proper to a k?vya, without, however, spoiling by this the  
flavour of the tales', v. a. I have added elegance of style and many a  
poetical ornament, yet so that I have not deprived the tales of their  
power to express the rasa's or sentiments aimed at."

Best,
Roland Steiner






