From witzel at FAS.HARVARD.EDU  Sun Mar 12 15:37:17 2000
From: witzel at FAS.HARVARD.EDU (Michael Witzel)
Date: Sun, 12 Mar 00 10:37:17 -0500
Subject: Great Discoveries, must read!
Message-ID: <161227056728.23782.8343875873032238604.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

IMPORTANT: "must read!"

>> PK Manasala:
>the prehistoric Indian horse (Equus sivalensis).... may be gone,  but
>domesticated horses with >sivalensis dentition,....  are still found in
>South ... Asia.

How could we all have overlooked this important piece of news for so long?
It definitely proves that

(a) the Rgveda, with its all its horse lore, was *of the age of Equus
Sivalensis* (died out some 15 mill. years ago, I hear), -- something that
has, of course, always been maintained by the indigenous tradition. After
all, the Rgveda, like all Shruti, is apaurusheya. And precedes our present
Kaliyuga, indeed the whole Kalpa. (For details see, for example,
http://www.hindubooks.org/wehwk/ch3.htm,
http://www.consciousnet.com/vedic/Institute.htm,  and many other
authoritative web sites).

(b) or, if our *present* recension of the Rgveda, redacted by  Vedavyaasa
-- (Steve Farmer is right in pointing out that our RV is *not* the
primordial one of the beginning of the present Kalpa, some 4,320,000,000
years ago) --  is only the one of the present Yuga, at 3102 BCE; in that
case, the S. Asian horses influenced by the Sivalensis type can be only
have been the product of deliberate inbreeding of the Central Asian strain,
by the genetic engeneers among the Rgvedic Rsis. They used Sivalensis DNA
preserved in Himalayan ice (e.g., at the source of the great central river
of the Vedic peoples, the Sarasvati, at the Har-ki Dhun glacier, see Dr.
Kalyanaraman at http://sarasvati.simplenet.com/nsindex.htm
http:/www.harappa.com, or http://www.probys.com/sarasvati

After all, the Rsis had ample laboratories for that, the Yajna  grounds
(see:  Agnihotra : a study from the chemical standpoint, by Swami Satya
Prakash Saraswati. New Delhi : Jan Gyan Prakashan, 1974, or many similar
studies, out of Poona,  or see:
http://www.geocities.com/Athens/Oracle/5084/agni.html ,
http://www.summit.net/home/agnihotra/ ,
http://hindunet.org/srh_home/1997_2/0031.html , and others). The many
beneficial effects of the Agnihotra were actually discovered and described
already a hundred years ago by Dayanand Sarasvati (see his Satyarth
Prakash/The Light of Truth, - Engl. transl. Allahabad  1915). And note,
finally, Rajesh Jayaraman's  quote of yesterday: "article, (with)  UFO
sightings during the vedic period.... powerful nuclear and atomic weapons.
Also ... space vehicles which are supposed to resemble today's so called
UFO mother ship." It is, of course well known all over India and Nepal  (I
often heard it from local pandits and Govt. ministers in New Delhi) that
"the Germans --such has Max Mueller-- stole the secrets of the Vedas, and
then built areoplanes and atomic bombs."

And, the Rsis had funds enough (note the many RV daanastutis! -- with gifts
of horses, camels, cows, gold, slave girls) to proceed with such testing
for a long time, until they succeeded in producing such great horses as
Dadhikraavan (RV 4.38-40) of Trasadasyu, for fear of whom the Dasyu-s
trembled. They were indeed so successful in breeding these horses that the
RV can speak of thousands of them that were given away as gifts (daana) by
some of the great Kings of the ancient Puuru and Bharata race, whose
ancient history  is authoritatively described in the Mahaabhaarata and the
Puraanas (all compiled by the prolific Vedavyaasa, as he himself tells us).


(c) It is much more likely, though, that the Central Asian horse is but a
denegerate descendent of the Sivalensis: it must have been taken by the
emigrant Druhyus, as S. Talageri has shown a few years ago (S. Talageri,
The Aryan Invasion Theory and Indian Nationalism, Voice of India
Publications, 1993), and again, it seems, more recently (Rigveda- A
Historical Analysis, Delhi, Aditya Prakashan, 2000),  to  Central Asia and
Europe, especially to England  (Druhyu is of course a much more apt name
than the traditional Anguli-sthaana that  P.N. Oak has recognized in the
Apabhramsa dialect used on those islands, Anglo-(Saxon).  Actually, it has
been shown long ago, in the Monsoon of 1979, by Wing Commander Simha(?) of
the Indian Air Force, as reported in detail on a half page in the Hindustan
Times (cannot find it right now), that English is a daughter of the South
Indian language Tulu: because, as he has observed, both English and Tulu do
not have the sound 'f', and 'hekkate' is the origin of English 'hickup'.
Which clinches the comparison.
For deeper insight into these linguistic relationships, see however, the
more recent discoveries by PK Manansala at
http://www.geocities.com/Tokyo/Temple/9845/austric.htm , and for a grander
view of other, African relatives of Tulu and Dravidian in general, see C.
Winters at http://@@@http://www.geocities.com/Athens/Academy/8919/ or in
part of http://www.geocities.com/Athens/Academy/8919/diop.htm

And, speaking of the Druhyus,  whoever invented Shaarmanya-desha for
'Germany'? - must have been that self-congratulatory society of R. Roth
(Ratha),  O. Boethlingk (Bhuutalinga) and company (to quote Th.
Goldstuecker in his "Panini", originally published in his
Manava-kalpa-sutra, London 1861), --  right during the dark ages of the
imperialist 19th century.  Little does it help them that they have also
stolen the name of their airline from Skt. hamsa 'swan' (Luft-hansa), and
broadcast Sanskrit twice per month on their foreign radio, Deutsche Welle,
to propagate the recently exposed  prachanna Christian missionary, Max
Mueller (Moksamuula)  and their M.M. Bhavans in India. In the end, they all
remain Druhyus, long exiled from Bharatavarsha. Indeed, according to
Bhagwan S. Gidwani, Return of the Aryans,  Penguin (India), 1994 the Black
Sea and Germany's Black Forest 'were named in memory of dark-skinned Aryans
from India', which gives us a good idea of their trail via Central Asia
towards the Atlantic...
However, another trail leads westwards, as Bhagavad Datta and Surya Kanta
have recognized long ago, early in the last century, via the Asura
(Assyrians), Sura (Syrians), Maitrayaniya (Mitanni), KaTha (Hittites), PaNi
(Phoenicians), etc. etc.  (Bhagavad Datta, Vaidika vanmaya ka itihasa,  New
Delhi,  repr. 1974, Surya Kanta, Kathakasamkalana, Lahore 1943)


If we take all these and other important discoveries, i.e.

* the ancient empires of the Africans (Winters) in Egypt (unfortunately he
forgets Greece's  Black Athene!), and in Mexico (Olmeks),

* those of India,  i.e. the "Black people ... the Sudras, Dalits and
Dravidians of India" (PK Manansala, March 1, 2000), some of whose expansion
to the Americas is detailed by Chaman Lal (Hindu America, Hoshiarpur 1956,
with prefaces/testimonials by such important authorities as M.K. Gandhi, J.
Nehru, S. Radhakrishnan, S. Naidu...): they settled in Mexico as Maya (the
name gives it away!), Aztecs, etc.; we should also not forget those who
went to China early on,  see:  Paramesh Choudhury, Indian origin of the
Chinese nation;   and

* the South East Asians (Austrics), who are spread from Sumeria to Easter
Island (Manansala)

and finally add things up, the "tropical" people (J. Campbell) will receive
their proper place in (pre)history, and the Eurocentric notion of
innovation and expansion by blue-eyed and blond-haired Europeans, such as
the Fins, Esthonians etc.,  (
http://www.hindubooks.org/david_frawley/myth_aryan_invasion/page16.shtml )
will be replaced, as the great mythologist Joseph  Campbell has
foreshadowed, by the so far neglected ones of the tropical forests.

But to return to the horse question, which has perturbed this list for too
long and which, like "so many Asian questions,  would not go away," as Dr.
Kalyanaraman has so correctly observed recently, -- were it not for the
great discoveries mentioned above.

It is a great pity that it have gone unnoticed for so long among
Indologists, otherwise, they would not have indulged in the "Saturnalia of
Sanskrit philology", to quote Goldstuecker again, for some 200 years.  It
is apt that this news comes on the heels of the yearly Saturnalia, finished
just now on Ash Wednesday, so that these Eurocentrists can repent and put a
black ash tilaka on their forehead (incidentally another item stolen from
India, the list is long ....)

May this message also serve as my  answer to the various "Aryan" threads
that have populated "Indology" recently.

The news is, after all, important enough that I could not wait for another
2 weeks,
until April 1.

==========

Michael Witzel
Department of Sanskrit & Indian Studies, Harvard University
2 Divinity Avenue, Cambridge MA 02138

ph. 617-496 2990 (also messages)
home page:     www.fas.harvard.edu/~witzel/mwpage.htm

Elect. Journ. of Vedic Studies:         www1.shore.net/~india/ejvs




