arguments.Instead he takes shelter in the shruti. From this it is only
reasonable to assume that Shankara thought that proving the existence of a
creator God was beyond the scope of reason.

And arguments against theism have a long history in India. The JainAs, the
ChAravAkas, the Buddhists, the earlier SAmkhyas and some Miimaamsakas
(KumArilla) have all argued against a creator God - all these in
pre-Shankaran times. Buddhist arguments against theism seems to be heavy in
the pre-Advaita days - the SautrAntikas particularly - Yashomitra,
Dharmakirti et al. In this period the NaiyAyikas fighting against the
Buddhists was particularly intense.

By the time of Shankara the subject seems to have been almost exhausted and
at a stalemate, with no favorable conclusion on either side. So Shankara
taking refuge in the shruti for proof of the existence of a creator God
seems quite in tune with the philosophical environs in his time.

And theism is not the main flavor in Advaita. So it is with respect to these
arguments that I think Buddhist criticism after Shankara and before
RAmAnuja, might not have been directed towards theism. But again, if
Birgitte can show that JnAnashrimitra did argue against theism and it was
him that Udhayana's dialectic is directed against, I'm willing to revise my
opinion.

>Unless you understand the differences between the svataH-prAmANya-vAda of
>one group and the parataH-prAmANya-vAda of the other, and all the
>respective
>implications for these arguments about scripture and the creator, you will
>continue to find it strange that Udayana makes this argument.

>You will see that significant Buddhists lived and wrote their texts, many
>centuries after Sankara had come and gone.

I only said that by the time of Shankara Buddhism was on the wane and "on
the wane", can by no means be equated with disappearance. A religion doesn't
die so easily. It would have taken centuries after Shankara before Buddhism
really disappeared.

I was just pointing out that by the 10th century Buddhism has lost its steam
and the VedAntic schools were getting stronger.

________________________________________________________________________
Get Your Private, Free E-mail from MSN Hotmail at http://www.hotmail.com




