both in his own line and his wife's line were debarred for ever. From this
clause it is clear that the chola society foresaw that the crooked and
corrupt would install his wife or near relatives and run benami transactions
and saw such men are not given any opportunity to meddle with public life.
It may be compared with the vociferous statements of some of the modern
politicians that corruption is not an issue in election, thereby directly
patronizing corruption. On the contrary the ancient democratic system found
corruption as the root cause of all evils in public life.

The second clause of importance found in the chola record relates to
accountability mentioned as "epper patta kanakkum kaattaate iruntaan".
Accountability is not confined to rendering accounts but all aspect of
public functions. The elected men are accountable to the public for their
public functions failing which they were to be removed from the membership
forthwith. In modern parlance it amounts to recall of elected members. The
chola records emphasize also efficient executions "kaaryatthil nipunan" Some
scholars interpret that failure to show far-sightedness in dealing with
public affairs will bring them under "totally inefficient " who should not
be entrusted with the membership. For example they argue that the in the
recently dissolved parliament  the opposition did exercise their right to
vote out the ruling combine which strengthens the fabric of democracy. At
the same time that they did not have an alternative plan and failed
miserably to give an alternative government Instead thrusted on the people
the heavy burden of expenditure of election which  otherwise could have been
put to developmental investments. As they did not efficiently plan the
alternative before pulling down the existing government their accountability
and efficiency have fallen to the lowest ebb. Lack of efficiency and
accountability were considered serious disqualification in Chola times.

[...]
________________________________________________________________________
Get Your Private, Free E-mail from MSN Hotmail at http://www.hotmail.com




