From troyoga at YAHOO.COM  Sat Nov  4 09:09:38 2000
From: troyoga at YAHOO.COM (Ven. Tantra)
Date: Sat, 04 Nov 00 01:09:38 -0800
Subject: zakti [was vajra]
Message-ID: <161227063537.23782.5810079462075597384.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

Subject: zakti [was vajra]

Thanking Stephen Hodge, who patiently wrote:

<<I believe that the consensus view is that Taaraa was
of Buddhist origin from the start>>

Another consensus view might be that the Goddess is
the origin. Academically, of course, I was under the
strong impression ? probably from Eliade (_Yoga_,
1964) ? that early in the 2nd century CE, two new
feminine deities entered Mahaayaana Buddhism:
Praj~naapaaramitaa and Taaraa. As you intimate, the
first is an invention/'origin' of the Doctors of the
Church. Perhaps it could be said that She is the
feminine embodiment of perfected intelligence, and the
corporal expression of an entire metaphysical system
contained in the Mahapraj~naapaaramitaazaatra, which
advances the doctrine of zuunyataa.

Taaraa on the other hand, had seemed to be one among a
dozen or more Indian goddesses of independent origin
that made their way into Tantric Buddhist ritual and
iconography. In this way, I was led to believe that
Taaraa could justifiably be interpreted as the
epiphany of aboriginal India's Great Goddess Zakti,
the Eternal Saviouress; and that when Buddhism
recruited Her, it thereby conferred on India's Savage
Goddess the distinguished status of Knowledge
Personified as a Voluptuous Goddess. This would not be
without its Western parallel. I believe that the
Biblical Sophia has also been regarded as the
personification of higher intelligence.

Elsewhere, I gathered ? perhaps also wrongly (my
resources are limited) ? that Taaraa (lit. "star") is
also one of the Ten Mahaavidyaas or "Great Knowledge
Bearers" that figure prominently in Hindist, Jain and
Buddhist tantric traditions. The Jain connection
strengthened my assumption that her history was
earlier than the Buddhist Tantras; given that Jainism
predates Buddhist Tantra and has undergone practically
no doctrinal change throughout its exceedingly long
history. In the Hindic or pan-Indian perspective, I
learned that Taaraa is typically identified as an
aspect of Braahman's Zakti who opens the way to
paraa-vidyaa, "higher knowledge," the direct,
intuitive transcendental knowledge that leads to
ultimate illumination and release. However, it is
Taaraa's combination as 'goddess' AND 'savioress' of
compassion that has made her the most admired Devi
among the Buddhist faithful. In another
interpretation, her name means, "to cross," as she
enables her devotee to cross the ocean of birth and
death. But she is mostly adored for protection and
material advantage. She is typically depicted as a
slender young woman. In sculpture, Her expression is
refined and alert. Her hands often take the form of
graceful muudras, one hand showing the sign for
teaching, the other lowered in the sign of granting
boons.

<<. . . so she would not have been called a `sakti I
suppose.>>

Your "suppose" is a little telling. There seems to be
caution over assigning terms. Pardon the
not-altogether-rhetorical question if you will, but
have terms such as 'divinity,' 'goddess,' 'devi,' and
'consort,' etc., been used in the Buddhist Tantras? In
some quarters today, zakti is nearly an English loan
word.

The goddess Maamakii is another ?devi? that found her
way into Mahaayaana ritual and iconography (Hodge, 8,
May, 2000). So, again I pose this question. Prior to
Maamakii's divine ?expansion? (or recruitment), is She
not considered a zakti-to-be? Are we to assume that
any pre- or extra-Buddhist feminine divinity submitted
herself to or simply underwent a transformation of
divine essence upon her appearance midst the
'revisionist' Buddhic milieu? Or would she possess a
sort of Krsna-esque "inconceivable simultaneousness"?

Interestingly, we have now learned that the Buddhist
Tantras do in fact employ the contentious term zakti,
as you?re your mention of Kaalacakra-tantra ? and why
not. It's natural. But could you kindly throw some
light on this? How might we address the Good Woman?

<<Also as far as I can see, in the Buddhist tantric
material I have read, there is quite a difference
between a vidyaa/praj~naa and a `sakti -- the female
component is basically "passive" in Buddhism (the male
is active = upaaya) while a `sakti is, as the word
suggests, "active" through this distinction may have
got blurred in later Buddhist yoginii tantras.>>

". . .this distinction may have got blurred. . ." =
the editors weren't doing their job? Is this the old
spiritual apartheid machine at work again? :)

And yes, your active/passive distinction is widely
recognized. But as you well know, though the devi may
be outwardly keeping right still, you are inwardly
flying to the seventh heaven. Would you be willing to
offer a set of parameters for defining and clarifying
the big "D" you perceive between a `sakti and a
