From vaidix at HOTMAIL.COM  Fri Nov 17 18:01:14 2000
From: vaidix at HOTMAIL.COM (Bhadraiah Mallampalli)
Date: Fri, 17 Nov 00 13:01:14 -0500
Subject: basic vs applied indology
Message-ID: <161227064416.23782.5205353410780262770.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

Prof Kochhar

Sir, your posts have always been very studied, decisive. I can see, you are
tired of all this.

>From: Rajesh Kochhar <rkk at NISTADS.RES.IN>

>1. I wonder whether it is fair to distinguish between Indian Indologists
>and Western Indologists. It may be more meaningful to distinguish between
>basic Indology and applied Indology.

True, but this item has been guillotined. This list is for exchange of
scholarly information only. Indology is definitely a dominant culture in the
ancient world. Indology will always play a role in understanding every other
culture.

However, the meaning of the word "applied" is different for every  member of
this list. An Indian Indologist likes to use this list to improve conditions
in India, whereas a Hurrian Indologist may use this list to answer questions
of a different country or culture.

>2. Perhaps, Indians settled abroad,apprehending the loss of their cultural
>identity and gene pool through intermarriages in the next two to three
>geneartions ,would like to maintain a certain level of  cultural tension.

I apologize, but I would say you went too fast on this one.

Migration is same for every one. Whatever is true of Indians is also true of
Russians migrating to US or Peurtoricans moving to mainland. Most Russian
friends I know have named their childern as Volga or Mikhail and brought
them up in Russian language and culture, no idea for how long they will
maintain this. The Russians may not be active culturally in relation to
their native country(ies) but they are active economically in their trade
links.

In any society minorities always organize themselves in much better ways
compared to majority. Before 1947 British government feared more from
Indians in UK than the Indians in India (who were offering their bodies in
satyAgrahA). Indians in UK were highly qualified migrants,  employed in key
industries and exported bomb technology, organized revolutions etc.

The activity of minorities in India must also be seen in this light. A
"part" of their "own" effort to organize themselves is due to natural
tendency as minorities. But then we are now living in an international
economy, so the efforts of minorities are also getting internationalized. As
the situation is complicated, one can not come to quick and simple
conclusions.

>3. As a reaction thereto, or otherwise,many basic Indologists may be
>tempted to make statements which would be deleted by the editor/referee  if
>included in a paper submitted to. a reputed journal.

What should go into a research paper is upto the scholar who submits. If
there are solid facts why not publish? Are they afraid that now onwards even
'foot notes' count?

In any case as Indology is a free-for all subject (not this list), any one
can set the agenda. For last 150 years the agenda was set by basic
Indologits (ex: iron). Now onwards the agenda may be set by applied
Indologists: not only on message boards, but in research papers also.
Unfortunately JAOS etc may not get the opportunity to reject such papers
because they may be actually published in other jounals like
Neuro-Linguistsics etc which are out of scope for them.

Best wishes
Bhadraiah Mallampalli
_________________________________________________________________________
Get Your Private, Free E-mail from MSN Hotmail at http://www.hotmail.com.

Share information about yourself, create your own public profile at
http://profiles.msn.com.




