>???From this time, the rites of Devaraja and the
consecration of the king's royal linga became the
chief sources of royal legitimacy. Popular worship of
the royal linga also became supreme. Such sculpted
stone phallic representations of Ziva were placed
throughout the Khmer Empire. They were normally
installed at the summits of pyramidal temple-mountains
representing Mount Kailasa, the navel of the universe.
Ziva's association with The Sacred Mountain is
generally understood. But here we have Ziva in the
symbolic form of a linga placed in the central shrine
of a temple that is itself symbolic of the sacred
mountain. The compound effect can nothing but swell
the ramifications of the primordial concept. As the
Cosmic Pillar, or axis mundi, the royal temple that
enshrined the linga symbolized the sacred mountain
Kailasa, "the abode of the gods." In this way, the
linga also plotted the "essential center" or primal
locus of the Royal Dominion. [BTB, could this be the
meaning of "cakratiirtha"?]

Cambodian monarchs seem to have made tremendously
exacting calculations to determine the kingdom's
essential power-point. And there they erected the
royal temple. This mysterious "point-zero" furthermore
functioned as the fundamental reference point to which
all-subsequent centers were aligned. Thus, the linga
of the king became the primal locus of not only the
immediate geographic locale, but also by extension,
the entire universe. By erecting temple-mountains to
enshrine the royal linga, each succeeding king was
essentially constructing a personal quincunx or
"four-cornered force-field" in the form of a
religio-architectural mandala of universal alignment,
power and protection. But mandalas, we should note,
are more than just "microcosmic mirrors of the
universe." Mandalas are also "receptacles" of the
gods.
_________________________________________________________________________
Get Your Private, Free E-mail from MSN Hotmail at http://www.hotmail.com.




