From troyoga at YAHOO.COM  Fri Dec 15 14:03:29 2000
From: troyoga at YAHOO.COM (Ven. Tantra)
Date: Fri, 15 Dec 00 06:03:29 -0800
Subject: Devaraja
Message-ID: <161227065463.23782.16971091744804900418.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

Vanbakkam Vijayaragavan wrote:

<<What is the vedic precedents conceptually and
ritually of the concept of 'devaraja' which came to be
a premier medieval Hindu mode of politico-religious
authority in India and more so in south east asia?>>

I have no idea as to any vedic (?) precedent. But in
reference to the Early Khmer, Dawee Daweewarn
indicates the origin of the ?incarnation concept? of
the Devaraaja to be ?a purely Vaiz.navite belief.?
_Brahmanism in South-East Asia (from the earliest time
to 1445 AD)_ (1982), 34. However, he does not
elaborate.

<< It is also said by some historians that the
ultimate conquest of one king by another king used to
be carrying away (not desecrating) the royal image
/deity symbolising the annexation of that
principality? Is this devaraja concept an innovation
of medievel India/ South east asia (i.e. post 3rd C
Ad) without precedents or ritual support?>>

Among the Khmer was quasi-historically introduced to
the in the 802 CE by Hira.nyadaama, a wandering
braahma.n priest of ?presumed Indian birth.? Still, as
it developed at Angkor, it seems to be entirely a
politicized form of ?aivism. The rites of the Devaraja
(lit. ?divine ruler?) established the king as a
cakravartin, or Lord of the World. The role of the
linga is a little complex. Examining how this rite
changed when it was adopted by the neighboring Siamese
from, say, the 13th century is also interesting. What
is the direction of your inquiry?

VT



__________________________________________________
Do You Yahoo!?
Yahoo! Shopping - Thousands of Stores. Millions of Products.
http://shopping.yahoo.com/




